
======================================================================
PAGE: Aeron
CATEGORIES: Gods, Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Aeron
======================================================================

Once the Archangel of Strength, Aeron was corrupted when he fell and joined
Agares
at the beginning of the Age of Dragons. Because of this, Creation will never know real strength.
His corrupted aspect is Hatred and Wrath, best expressed by the physical rage of werewolves. He presides over Man's baser emotions, and is called the God of Blood and Murder.
He is the patron God of Assassins, Berserkers, and the
Calabim
. A guild of assassins, called Aeron's Chosen, are in actuality a cult devoted to him.
His Archangel is Odio, who was imprisoned by
Kilmorph
during the signing of the compact:
When the gods met at
the Seven Pines
they called a truce in the Godswar. The divine armies withdrew to their sacred lands and humanity had a hint of the peaceful times that would come. But the greatest of Aeron's angels, the archangel Odio, ignored his lord's command. He was given over to his bloodlust and lead an army of
Ira
into the lands of Kilmorph.
Though willing to agree to the compact, the other gods did not believe he would abide by it. As Kilmorph most vocally criticized him:
"What means the words of one who does not rule his own home? If Aeron is to share our council he must withdraw his aura from Odio."
Aeron and the other gods agreed, thus Aeron's protection was removed from the raging Odio. In that instant the Queen of Gems reached out and pulled Odio into the earth.
There she left him transformed to stone
, an eternal testament to the power of the gods and cost of defying their will.
Aeron's new archangel is the
Avatar of Wrath
, and he eagerly awaits the coming Apocalypse for the chance to unleash him upon Erebus.

======================================================================
PAGE: Aifons
CATEGORIES: Lore, Races
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Aifons
======================================================================

The Aifons were a race of people who were once like men but gained the ability to breathe underwater due to their close interaction with their patron god,
Danalin
. They looked like humans except that they had webbed hands and feet and perhaps even gills. They did trade openly with
Patria
so it's very likely there were at least a few half human half Aifon children running around. Its not even unthinkable that some Aifons would have decided to live in the human cities though this would have been pretty rare (like an elf deciding to go live in a human city).
There were no other significant Aifon settlements other than the island chain that they inhabited, and assuming that their bloodline was spread it would be pretty diluted through all the centuries that have occured since then, especially considering the impact fo the
Age of Ice
on everyone.
They mysteriously became extinct during the
Age of Magic
. Even Danalin and his angels have no idea what happened to the Aifons. There was a prophecy of destruction, a sense of forboding and a coming darkness that went on for years. Strange events were becoming more frequent, animals that lived in peace with the Aifons turned violent, animals born with deformities, nightmares among the most spiritual.
It was so prevelant that their most promising young man was sent to sequester help. To find out something about the omens. What he found was all bad, without exception every prophet fortold his death and the death of his people. Some told of even worse than death, of eternal loss. Some just fell to tears when they tried to augar his future.
Trenton never did find out exactly what could cause such destruction, but he did find a way to stop it. A ritual that would allow Danalin himself to enter creation.
The quest for it was a long one and Trenton met and learned a lot about the godswar,
the compact
and
the Godslayer
. He talked to Branding about the role of the gods, and priests of most of the good and neutral religions. In the end he stood upon the island home of his people the day before their prophecied doom and considered his options. His friends were around him, the ritual was in hand and he had everything he needed to perform it. But he decided not to do it.
Maybe Trenton didn't believe that the threat was real. Maybe he though it was just a trick to restart the godswar. Or maybe he knew that even though what he did might save his people, it would eventually destroy many more.
The next day there was a sudden flood of irrational cries and prayers from the Aifons, then nothing. No souls passed into Danalin's vault, none passed into
Arawn's
underworld. They were simply gone.
The islands themselves are uninhabited now, though there is evidence people lived there (both above and below the water) the entire area is tainted with the same influence the Aifons had noticed up until the attack. But there was nothing left of any of the people, Trenton or his companions.
The only thing of real value that was discovered afterwards was the ritual itself, which was later used to summon
Mulcarn
and start the Age of Ice. If the
Illians
got it from the island, got it in the same way that Trenton did, or through other means is unclear.

======================================================================
PAGE: Bestiary of Erebus
CATEGORIES: Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Bestiary_of_Erebus
======================================================================

To those interested in world lore or those looking to write stories or run D&D games based in Erebus here is a little flavor that may help.
Published by Kael on Jul 25, 2009
Art by Chain and Jane, Sandara, Brom, SnowSkadi, Brandon Kitkouski, Daarken ,Hamsterfly, Kekai Kotaki
Source:
https://forums.civfanatics.com/threads/bestiary-of-erebus.329150/
PDF Version 1.04 download:
http://kael.civfanatics.net/files/BestiaryofErebus.pdf
Bestiary of Erebus
A resource for gaming in the world of Fall from Heaven
by Derek “Kael” Paxton
Amathaon
Couatl - The snake is the symbol of Amathaon and the Couatl, a winged snake, is his preferred messenger.
Eurabatres, the Gold Dragon (unique)- Hidden in creation, Eurabatres is the most powerful of the Dragons, and the most difficult to wake from slumber.
Pixie- Pixies were created by Amathaon to tend to his gardens. Since Amathaon has retreated from creation they have been left behind and have spread out to any place that features beautiful flowers. Pixies have some magical powers but they mostly relate to simple illusions or the health of plants. They tend to distrust humans except for small children, who they sometimes protect or play with. One or two pixies sometimes abandon their gardens and move into more populated areas, preferring to live in the homes of artists or inventors. They are fascinated by new creations and are known to help with designs and projects when the artist is away or sleeping.
Pseudo-dragon- These dragons are barely larger than a house cat. They have a poisonous stinger on the end of their tail which is a formidable defense. Pseudo-dragons are favored as friends of good human and elven mages for their loyal and pleasant personalities.
Lugus
Seraph- The Seraphim appear as angels surrounded in a halo of golden fire. They are commonly used as seekers, used to retrieve those who have violated divine law and bring them back for judgment. Many of the Seraphim are angels who used to be under Bhall and refused to fall with her. Most of the gods are suspicious of the Seraphim, and several have fallen even since Bhall’s fall to become powerful fallen angels. But Lugus remains loyal and welcoming to the Seraphim that serve him. A Seraph feather is thought to be a powerful token of love and devotion.
Solar- Solars are used as guardians of the most important waypoints and portals for their strength and because nothing can be hidden from their view. Solars are true angels, a direct creation of a god and not the ascendance of a once mortal soul, so they are comparable to the demonic Balors.
Junil
Einherjar- Warrior spirits that travel to Junil’s heaven are not given eternal rest. Instead they train in mock battles each day, preparing for the final war that Junil believes will eventually come.
Ophanim- The Ophanim are flying chariots manned by angels. They are swift and terrible. Though they fly their wheels still spin with the sound of crunching bones.
Valkyrie- Valkyrie were created to battle the demons who were stealing souls undeserving of hell. They escort the claimed to the heavens and attack demons attempting to stop the unclaimed from traveling to Arawn’s realm.
Nantosuelta
Amicus- Dogs with gleaming silver fur. They are unusually intelligent and faithful companions though they never serve cruel masters. Amicus usually befriend children, which is a sign that the child is destined for a heroic future.
Arma- These angels most commonly appear on Erebus as items; usually armor or weapons. When used by those Nantosuelta favors they act as powerful magical objects.
Daoine Sidhe (unique)- A procession of beautiful spirits so entrancing that animals, plants and inanimate objects often join the parade. Herald- Angelic messengers often used to convey important messages. They convey not only words but usually powerful blessings, for example Nantosuelta may send a Herald to a general that grants valor and strength to his army. Priestesses of Ceridwen have been known to be able to capture and use the blessing of a Herald to their own ends.
Sirona
Appeleurs- Appeleurs are spirits that appear as owls with luminous eyes. They are often sent to warn mortals of danger.
Dovoveo- These powerful angels inhabit a specific site in creation. Within their site they have almost complete control and these sites tend to be the most sacred of holy areas. One is said to be an island where people never die.
Loireag- The Loireag are fairies of the dawn and twilight. They are known to be great tailors and weavers. They often leave gifts for the generous poor and dislike the greedy.
Swanmay- Swanmays tend to dwell in remote places, sacred ponds and groves being the most common. They have been known to grant blessings and healing to those they befriend. Their feathered cloaks allow them to transform into swans, though mortals who wear their cloaks are transformed into animals that suit their nature.
Sucellus
Phoenix- There are only seven Phoenixes, one for each of the parts Sucellus’s body was broken into by Mulcarn. They grow forever, becoming the size of a dragon in a few centuries. But this is unlikely to occur because a phoenix’s body parts are highly prized as magical components. Every phoenix has an egg and after the phoenix dies the broken shell reforms and the phoenix will be born anew the following morning. These eggs are jealously hidden and guarded by the Unblemished (worshippers of Sucellus).
Rams of Vir- Found only in remote and usually treacherous areas these rams have powerful horns that curve back over their head and they hit as hard as a charging bull three times their size. They are prized for their milk, which heals wounds and diseases. Many people have attempted to breed them in captivity without success. Their milk even loses its magical properties after a few days.
Tomb Warden- Though they are primarily responsible for escorting the souls of the newly born to their new bodies, Tomb Wardens have a special dislike for grave robbers and most commonly come into contact with mortals when appearing to stop them.
Arawn
Anesidora (unique)- Anesidora is the only human soul who isn’t descended from Nemed. She was given an immortal soul but without a true divine birthright the ages have worn heavily on her. Though trapped in Arawn’s realm since her death early in the Age of Dragons her cold heart was secreted out of the afterworld in the Age of Rebirth and she now exists as a dark draconic shadow under the sway of her heart’s possessor. Though she isn’t evil, she is destructive and manifests such sorrow that most enemies fall into despair when confronted by her.
Dullahan- Dullahan are also known as Angels of Death. They were formed to enforce Arawn’s dominion, to make sure that the perversions of undeath or immortality don’t occur. But Arawn has little interest in creation so the only Dullahan that are ever encountered have rebelled from Arawn.
Sluagh- Sluagh are mortal souls. They will attempt to pass to Arawn’s realm if they aren’t claimed by any of the gods or trapped by a necromancer. Occasionally a strong sense of duty will cause a Slaugh to remain after its death; this is the only time a person can be resurrected by normal means (most resurrection spells cannot reclaim souls from the afterworld, hell or the god’s vaults). The Sluagh’s will to regain life will determine how long they remain in creation and are available to be resurrected. The Elohim use a trick to bypass this restriction and assign a soul catcher to their royalty. The soul catcher is a mage specializing in spirit magic who can trap the soul after death and hold it until a resurrection is available.
Cernunnos
Bereguines- Bereguines appear as large men covered in bark and foliage. They are known to inhabit forests on the edges of the Calabim lands. The Calabim give them offerings to earn their favor and the Bereguines are known to accept human offerings for food.
Bocquillons- Bocquillons are cousins of the Bereguines, though their bark is white and their foliage is typically gold or silver. They are more rare and more docile than the Bereguines. They commonly rest beside rivers and most mistake them for trees.
Clurichaun- Small forest spirits, they have learned to appreciate human and dwarven villages (though they shy away from cities), especially when it grants them access to alcohol. Clurichauns are normally drunk, and surly when they aren’t. They have some limited magical power though it is usually restricted to pranks and breaking into wine cellars. Claurichauns love to gamble, though they have little skill at it.
Elf- Elves were once men who shared a forest with Sucellus during the Age of Dragons. Sucellus didn’t participate in the godswar and lived with these men and his creations instead. His presence transformed the men, increasing their affinity to the natural world.
Elves of the Summer Court- The summer court are the elves who remained true to Sucellus and his archangel Cernunnos during the Age of Ice. When Cernunnos ascended to godhood they began venerating Cernunnos. They are led by their queen Arendel Phaedra. The summer court are masters of sun and nature magic, they are capable summoners and enchanters.
Elves of the Winter Court- The winters court are the elves who rebelled after the fall of Sucellus and began venerating Esus instead. They are lead by their queen Faeryl Viconia. The winter court are masters of shadow and nature magic, they prefer illusions and trickery as a part of their military planning. “Once Elves”- An elven mercenary group led by Arak the Erkling followed Laroth into the afterworld, the lands of Arawn. Some returned through the Well of Shadows and now live in that liminal place led by Arak’s son Haerlond.
Fyrdwell- The most reclusive of the elves, the fyrdwell have befriended deer that they use as mounts, though they live as equals with them. The Fyrdwell still venerate Sucellus, though they will ally themselves with the Elves of the Summer Court when danger threatens either group.
Guardian Vines- Many assume that the living vines that are spread throughout elven forests are separate creatures. But they are typically all appendages from one great guardian vine that exists hundreds of feet beneath the forest and is tended to by the elves. Though its reach is limited by the forest it lives in the guardian vine recognizes everyone that walks above it and it will lay in wait for someone who has angered it to come within reach of another of its limbs.
Guerliguet- Guerliguet appear as large, cute squirrels. They often use this to their advantage to try to befriend humans passing through their areas and commonly steal items from them or offer the humans poisoned berries (the Guerliguet are immune to the poisons in their forest). They are unrepentant thieves. When not messing with humans they commonly protect bird nests from attacks or keep a careful watch over rare plants.
Lechiy- A forest spirit with feet ending in deer hooves and a great bramble of antlers on his head like a wild crown. The Lechiy is a powerful Druid and generally leads creatures in the forest he lives in.
Libo- These hairy giants are fond of making a hammock high in the trees to sleep in. They can often be heard snoring or whistling for the breezes to blow. Though they are amicable enough, they can be ferocious when angered and they aren’t easily calmed.
Satyr- Satyr are the descended children of Cernunnos and his mortal wives. They tend toward wild playfulness when young and slowly become stronger and wiser in old age.
Touttus- Drab brown birds that have been known to use their beautiful song to lure children into the forest, most commonly to where trolls or other predators are waiting for them. Touttus do this because they find the cries and sounds of children annoying, otherwise touttus are pleasant creatures.
Treant- At times the atrocities against the forest became so pronounced that the forest will raise up to defend itself. The type of tree that becomes a treant doesn’t matter, in some forests giant flowers or other plants can become equally animated. It is the forest spirit that provides the animation, not the physical tree.
Urisk- Urisk appear as large satyrs with a full coat of reddish fur. They are wild and though not bad-tempered by nature they are capable of attacking those who bother them or come to close to their lairs. They favor the food of more civilized races and can often be bribed with it.
Dagda
Cipus- There are seven Cipi. They are true angels that stand on the boundaries of Erebus and are responsible for enforcing the natural laws. They frequently clash with the angels of Ceridwen and are known as “the Pillars of Creation” for their appearance, which is that of tall white statues.
Runewyns- The runewyns are winged angels who are immune to all magic. They are frequently sent to battle powerful wizards or to cross magical barriers. They can drain away all but the most powerful spells with a touch.
Danalin
Aifon- The men who lived with Danalin during the Age of Dragons were changed by the presence of the god of water. Though they appeared much as men, outside of a slight webbing between the toes and fingers, they breathe water as easily as air. The Aifons were all destroyed during the Age of Magic, though what killed them is unknown.
Kraken- These beasts have sworn their loyalty to Hastur, the lord of nightmares and archangel of Mammon. They dwell in the deepest oceans and rarely come to the surface except at the bidding of dark priests. Leviathan (unique)- A massive fish sent to guard the Aifons from attack. The Leviathan survived the attack but was driven mad by it.
Nuckelavee- A lake creature. The Nuckelavee appears as a serpent with loose folds of molted skin and patches of bare muscle and bone. They are very protective of their territory and frequently sink any boats that move through it.
Sea Serpent- Sea Serpents can grow to be large enough to swallow entire ships whole and they release thousands of eggs during their mating cycles. It is only their frequent clashes with each other and the lack of food in their environment that keeps their numbers under control.
Stygian Guard- The stygian guard are the silent servants of Hastur. They exhibit no attempts at communication and little evidence of thought outside of their ability to ruthlessly follow commands. When they aren’t being commanded they seek out pools or other bodies of water and sink unmoving to the bottom unless disturbed.
Undines- These beautiful water nymphs dwell in remote ponds. The good ones are extremely shy and hide for those who pass by their pools. Many of the Undines have gone mad and try to lure men into their pools for a lethal, watery kiss.
Weird- Cousins of the Zabulus and the Devoveo, weirds also inhabit a particular site and warp the laws of reality within it. But for weirds the changed laws tend to be less predictable and more obvious. Before the fall of Danalin, weirds were known as marid, powerful genies that could grant any wish within their domain (though the effects quickly faded if the requester left the marid’s area). But Danalin’s fall has driven many mad and they now exert their powerful control with little purpose.
Kilmorph
Basilisk- Basilisks were placed by Kilmorph as the guardians of ancient treasures. They do not need food, water or air to survive. A victim who meets a basilisk’s gaze is turned to stone. In the Age of Magic dwarven guardians would go into these vaults blindfolded to draw from them while they felt the breath of the Basilisk on their skin. Many still follow this tradition, even in vaults without basilisks.
Calculpech- They look like small dwarven children, even when full grown. The Calcupech are gentle spirits and builders, often making elaborate (though diminutive) homes. A curious tradition among the Calcupech is that they haven’t the heart to kill a living creature so they stage hunts for imaginary animals and mime cooking and eating them in great, pretend feasts. Most suspect they are crazy.
Dwarf- Dwarves dwell in the underhome, the depths beneath Erebus. They claim to not be descended from men, but born from the clay statues of Kheldon Ki and given life by Kilmorph herself. Scholars argue that the dwarven use of magic (though limited) and the fact that dwarves can ascend as both angels and demons proves that they are children of Nemed and descended from men.
Duergar- Dwarves who have fallen to Mammon’s greed become Duergar. Though once this title meant the dwarf was exiled from the dwarven community (and the community no longer thought of the person as a dwarf) it became so common that eventually entire Duergar cities were formed.
Luchuirp- The Luchuirp were a clan of dwarves who venerate Nantosuelta and chose to remain on the surface during the Age of Magic. They are expert golem crafters and more mechanically minded and more magically talented than their deeper cousins.
Redcaps- Once a dwarven mercenary company in the Age of Magic, the redcaps were so well known for their brutal nature that the term has been applied to any dwarf that venerates Aeron, the god of murder. Thankfully it is rare for dwarves to succumb to Aeron, but when they do they are usually very dangerous and well equipped.
Knocker- Knockers tap on mine walls and try to lead miners to valuable veins and warn of mining accidents. They can pass through stone as easily as air and they hate Wichtlein.
Mudmen- Once playful children, the mudmen have been too long away from the care of the angels of Kilmorph and are have grown violent and cruel. They dwell in swamps, rain forests, or along the banks of large rivers and lakes and if they have the advantage of numbers they are quick to drag victims down into their muddy homes and drown them.
Myconid- Deep within the underhome there are fungi that release powerful spores that take root in a living host and transform him into a part human, part fungi creature. These are the Myconid. A fully developed Myconid has the ability to release spores as well, though these are limited to only causing hallucinogenic effects, not the parasitic ones. During the Age of Invention dwarven generals loosed the fungi spores on an enemy city, transforming most of the population into dull Myconid hosts.
Oghma
Djinn- Created during the Age of Dragons, Djinn are strengthened by magical energy. They were Oghma’s attempt to use the power of the other gods against them. Djinn are amorphous blue forms, though they usually choose to appear as humanoids, like men made of flowing water. In an environment without magic they become weak and sedentary. Their nature makes it impossible to imprison them in magical traps or bars, but in environments without magic they can be held in items as simple as tightly corked bottles.
Gowlers- Sometimes called “past men,” gowlers are angels that exist only in memories. They can travel through a person’s memory and change things. This can lead to the impression that they change the past, but only from that person’s perspective. They are most commonly used as messengers, delivering messages directly into people’s memories. Though they can use their power for deception, they rarely do so. Many gowlers have fallen into Mammon’s domain, and they are very dangerous and difficult to destroy, often turning goodly people against each other.
Lucerna- The Lucerna are hidden spirits that dwell in libraries and near sources of knowledge. They are able to gift understanding on those who they find worthy. Although they are not fond of battle, they have been known to reveal themselves in order to help protect things with unique information. Typically this involves secreting the object or person away from whatever threatens it. Lucerna glow slightly and also known as “lamp angels.”
Tali
Gyre Carlin (unique)- The work of the Gyre Carlin is that of bad fortune and misery. She makes the horizon lower, the waters colder, the stretches of the march more treacherous, the snow more icy, the frost more biting. She makes furrows deeper and draws out the bad winter day to the point of deep distress. She makes cats fight each other by moonlight, and she starves the crows. She spoils grain once harvested, dampens wheat, sours milk, entices children toward ravines, and loses flocks and their shepherds in fogs. She appears as a withered hag.
Hyapon- These majestic horses are both faster and stronger than normal horses. Though they are nearly impossible to capture and break, once they are mastered they make for the more prized mounts in Erebus outside of supernatural creatures like griffons and nightmares.
Sylph- These beautiful air spirits have been known to give up their eternal dances among the winds and clouds to marry mortal men. The only consistent part of their ephemeral nature if their faithfulness to their spouse, who will be blessed with a happy marriage. But their children, although frequently brilliant and creative, are often restless and troublesome for many generations. Many suspect Tali created the Sylphs specifically to breed this tendency into men.
Agares
Balor- A Balor is a true demon, a being created directly by the gods and not the result of a corrupted once mortal soul as most demons are. Every Balor was once an angel in the service of a god, now fallen because either the god fell and they followed, or they fell on their own. Although all of the evil gods have Balors in their service Agares has most of them, and all of Agares’s Balors are the corrupted angels of good or neutral gods.
Beast of Agares- A Beast of Agares is a living beast that has gone through an unholy ritual that strengthens it. The ritual involves massive human sacrifice. Beasts of Agares enjoy hunting paladins, and can sense the presence of one from miles away.
Death Knight- Demons who have passed the trials of hell and tire of the dust lands of Agares’s realm can enter Erebus to create their own fiefdoms or hunt men. Their powers vary based on the individual, but they are all powerful both in combat and in the magical arts. They typically ride nightmares and manifest as hollow suits of dark armor with burning eyes.
Dybbuk- The Dybbuk are malicious spirits that can control the soul of someone who recently died. They have little power over the just, though those burdened with sin are easy prey for them. The Dybbuk can force the soul to possess a living or dead host.
Ghoul- When a Dybbuk leaves a corrupted soul in the body of a dead host it becomes a ghoul.
Wight- When a Dybbuk leaves a corrupted soul in the body of a dead host and the Dybbuk remains to strengthen and control the soul then the creature is known as a Wight. Wights are more powerful than ghouls and their touch steals the life and strength of their victim. Although Dybbuk prefer to not draw too much attention to themselves when threatened they can usually raise a group of ghouls lead by a wight to defend themselves.
Forso- Corrupt men who are killed by hanging and left overnight can become Forso. They are strong spirits who often try to reenact the sorts of crimes that weighed on their souls before their death. Unlike undead, killing a Forso will only destroy it for a day, it will reappear the following night. To be permanently destroyed the Forso’s body must be sanctified.
Manes- Manes are souls newly born into hell. They are the beginning of the process of turning a mortal soul into a demon. They are weak and easily controlled.
Meurli- The Meurli can occasionally be seen in graveyards or around tombs. They appear as women wearing dark shrouds. Despite their service to Agares they are not known to be dangerous to mortals, and simply disappear if approached.
Meshabber of Dis (unique)- The great prince of Dis. Agares places Meshabber by the throne of hell (the gateway between Erebus and the hells) to guard against invasion. Meshabber takes little interest in Dis itself, except to amuse himself by tormenting those in it, though that is relatively rare. Instead he spends most of his time gazing up through the throne into Erebus.
Zabulus- These rare spirits are among the most depraved of those in Agares’s service. They typically haunt a particular area and spend their time trying to torment those who enter it. Unlike other haunting spirits Zabuli are powerful and their tricks go well beyond simple illusions and pranks. They are often able to control every aspect of their domain, as well as those inside it unless they are pious. Zabuli typically control an area the size of a building or a few acres of wild lands, but some are said to control entire castles or villages.
Aeron
Aeron Chort- Also known as vampire bats, Chorts are blood suckers that sometimes hunt in packs of thousands.
Eidolon- The Eidolon are demonic warlords who have passed through the training of Aeron and become more powerful because of it. Many are fallen paladins or lead a very moral life that they are now a dark corruption of.
Imp- Aeron is the first to let the souls within his domain return to Erebus. They return as relatively weak imps, creatures with the ability to grant minor supernatural powers or teach secrets to men in exchange for their souls. It is in this guide that Aeron hopes to teach each demon to put the lessons of manipulation and control into use.
Luidag (unique)- A particularly talented seductress, sometimes called “the Rag” because of her flimsy, revealing clothes. She has killed many men during the throes of passion; some would say there are worse ways to die.
Marni- the Marni is a lesser spirit known to leave scratches on his victim while he sleeps. The Marni has a powerful sedative that keeps the victim from feeling the attacks that often lasts into the next day where they may not notice that they are still bleeding from the wounds. Marni try to leave their scratches in places the victim won’t easily see.
Sir Halewyn (unique)- Sir Halewyn appears in cities at night, always surrounded by fog. He rides a beautiful warhorse and wears silver armor and white clothes. His song is irresistible to young girls, whom he carries off on the back of horse. He takes them to a river bank, undresses them and then cut their heads off. Then he returns to the fog with great fanfare.
Succubus- Succubi are powerful seducers. They can appear as female or male (where they are called Incubus) but their gender makes little difference to them. They were created to tempt mortals or occasionally sire cambions with them.
Bhall
Acheron, the Red Dragon (unique)- Acheron is jealous and temperamental. He rarely leaves his lair, which has grown flooded with the stolen treasures that orcs have brought to him in offerings. Azer- These are the eyes of Bhall and she has sent them into creation to relearn the world that changed while she slept in the Age of Ice.
Candle Imps- Not true imps, they appear as tiny men only a few inches tall with a burning candle atop their head like a hat. They tend to inhabit churches and are minor spirits. Before Bhall’s fall they were good to have in a church, bringing good luck and warning of bad things. But since the fall they have become peevish and meddlesome, often giving away the secrets of those in the church to more powerful evil spirits.
Efreet- Winged demons capable of summoning vast torrents of fire. The most powerful are able to summon rivers of fire and can endanger entire cities. They bind the spirits of fire elementals into their service, which are usually trapped in the various jewels and tokens the efreet wears, and use them to animate the fires.
Goblinoid Races
Each of these races were once the Bannor, men devoted to Bhall and transformed into raging beasts by her fall. They come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes but they tend toward green skin, strong bodies and bones.
Goblin- Goblins are the smallest members of the goblinoid races. They can be clever and manipulative, though they are relatively weak. They lack the jutting bone spikes of orcs, but are known for their large hard heads. Their heads are so hard that goblins use them to block attacks.
Ogre- Ogres are huge, averaging about nine feet and occasionally as large as twelve feet tall. They are unusual in that their coloration varies dramatically between individual ogres covering every end of the spectrum. Some are hairless and some are completely covered in a thick coat of fur.
Orc- Orcs are roughly man-sized though usually stronger than men. They have sharp bones that jut out of their skin. These bones can be as small as horns or ridges, or large enough to be used by the orc as weapons.
Camulos
Caducus- Cadacus are twelve-foot-tall demons with gaping mouths large enough to swallow men whole. Their thick bodies are hollow and numerous gaps allow those swallowed alive and trapped within the Caducus to be seen struggling. A Caducus will keep victims trapped within him for days, until they die on their own. They prefer children as victims as they can stuff more inside themselves.
Cornugon- These terrifying hunters patrol Camulos’s hell usually accompanied by a wide assortment of demonic beasts. Camulos occasionally grants one the opportunity to hunt in Erebus for a night, much to the horror of those he comes across.
Chaos Marauder- Camulos originally created Chaos Marauders (then known as the Pacalis) as diplomats and traders. They are gifted with the ability to speak and understand any language and originally intended to smooth out relations between any intelligent species that may have conflict. That plan didn’t last long and shortly after Camulos fell the Chaos Marauders reversed their roles, becoming mercenaries for hire and doing anything within their power to cause strife between various individuals, races and empires. They still retain the ability to understand any language, but their speech jumps randomly between languages, making it nearly impossible for anyone but other marauders to understand more than small bits of what they are saying.
Hell Hound- Hell hounds are minor demons but they are able to sense the living as well as their emotions as easily as normal dogs can smell. This makes them perfect for tracking a victim, especially if the victim is feeling strong emotions like fear or pain.
Ira- These demons, also called “Drinkers,” consume the souls of their victims becoming more powerful each time they kill someone. After a few kills the ira becomes so powerful opponents are better served to hide until they return to normal rather than try to kill it. Calming spells are very effective against ira, and weaken them considerably.
Nightmare- Nightmares are a powerful breed of demonic horses. They make the best warhorses on Erebus but they eat meat and are cruel to anyone except those strong enough to master them. They lure warriors away from their camps. The warriors chase after them, hoping to capture the dark steed, only to have the nightmare turn on them and consume them. Nightmares hate normal horses and normal horses are scared of nightmares.
Pit Beast- Pit Beasts are tormented souls trapped in the chasm prisons of Camulos’s hell. They are strong and mindless outside of basic animalistic urges. They have become so acclimated by pain that not only do they not fear it, but they are driven by a desire to feel it and inflict it on others.
Salamander- Salamanders are made for war, most were crusaders in life spending their days on blood-soaked battlefields in allegiance to some ideal or command. Now the illusions of their ideals have been stripped from them and war is all that they seek. Salamanders differ from Camulos’s demons in that they seek war for the ability to inflict pain and the sheer chaos. Salamanders love war for the conflict, for the struggle, for the clash of ideologies (even if they don’t care which ideology wins). Leaders of rebellions are fond of summoning salamanders to aid them.
Spinagon- Much as Imps are the least in Aeron’s hell, Spinagon are the least in Camulos’s. They are the weakest and most abused in their hell and must cause pain to improve their strength and stature. Spinagons have all of their mortal memories stripped from them, and begin as little more than bestial attackers.
Thrall- A thrall is a person possessed by one of the violent spirits form Camulos’s hell. They are known to be incredibly strong, unpredictable and violent. Unholy priests who can control the demon often use thralls as elite warriors. A thrall at full power often manifests significant physical mutations including things like tentacles, extra limbs, horns and overgrown muscles. Some become so transformed they no longer appear human.
Werewolf- Duin Halfmorn was one of the greatest of Camulos’s worshippers. He came from humble beginnings and survived as a serial killer and cannibal before taking control of a small bandit ring to extend his brutality. Eventually the bandits became outraged by his behavior, though their attempt to overthrow him failed and he feasted on their hearts. He prayed to Camulos for more loyal followers and Camulos blessed him with the ability to infect others with lycanthropy, changing victims into ravenous werewolves. Though this didn’t result in very loyal followers for Duin, he enjoyed being able to spread his curse and has produced generations of werewolves since.
Wichtlein- Wichtlein inhabit mines and attempt to lure miners into areas about to collapse to explode. The Wichtlein themselves are never injured in these collapses. They hate knockers.
Ceridwen
Abashi, the Black Dragon (unique)- The shadow of Ceridwen is only sent on her most important tasks. Abashi is able to swallow anything that can fit within her mouth and has swallowed fully armored men, horses and golems. Diving into a small lake Abashi once drank the lake dry so that an army of pyre zombies could pass across. Abashi also has an enduring rebirth of the archmage Tebryn Arbandi inscribed on her forehead. As long as that rune remains Tebryn cannot die.
Colubra- Colubra are snake-men with the lower bodies of snakes, snake heads and humanoid arms. There is a wide variety within their species, some are poisonous, some exceptionally large or strong, other have two heads or a variety of other mutations. They can be powerful warriors and spell casters, which is unusual outside of those descended from Nemed (humans and the derived races). It isn’t known if this talent is due to some human ancestry or the influence of Ceridwen. Colubra often work as mercenaries for less ethical warlords, and tend to inhabit remote locations sacred to Ceridwen, which usually means the site has its own unusual properties.
Harpy- With the lower body of vultures and the upper bodies of women they are beautiful when young, and become grizzled and horribly ugly as they age. Harpies have a beautiful singing voice that can make men become entranced with them, to the point of jumping off ledges to try to reach them. They also use the poison of plants and animals in their region and apply it to their claws in battle.
Marautule- A marautule is a spider that slips into the victim’s mouth while he sleeps and attaches to the victim’s larynx. When the victim awakes they will begin to feel increasingly irritated. Over the next few days this will eventually drive them to destroy all of their relationships, insulting and abusing children and loved ones. Telling secrets to cause others pain, and acting as emotionally destructive as possible (this may or may not include any physical violence). It will eventually end when someone finds out that the Marautule is inside them, someone kills the victim, or most commonly the victim kills himself.
Matagot- These spirits come in various forms, usually that of a small animal such as a cat or a rat. They seek out powerful evil owners, typically spell casters, and grant their owner a supernatural ability in exchange for some significant rule the owner must comply with. The power and the rule vary depending on the Matagot. One may allow his owner to have clairvoyant dreams, seeing things that are really occurring while he sleeps, but in exchange the owner must feed the Matagot a fresh dove every morning. Another may allow his owner to radiate an aura of fear, but require that his owner never bathe or wash himself.
Mobius Witch- Once human, the mobius witches live in the bizarre between worlds of Ceridwen. In Erebus they have an odd fascination with edges, corners and doorways, sometimes to the point of fearing them. Though they display little interest in relationships with humans or with each other they are as insightful to the nature of relationships as they are obtuse about the physical world. Mobius Witches are powerful spell casters, occasionally using magic unfamiliar to Erebus (rune magic originally came from them).
Naga- Naga are giant snakes with the heads of women. They are wise, strong military leaders, and cruel. They are strong spell casters, but usually rely on servants to their protection. They are fond of riddles and puzzles and will often let victims go if they show a talent for either.
Esus
Buggane- This creature has an unusual method of killing its victims. It’s a nearly perfect shape shifter, able to easily adopt the form, mannerisms and voice of whoever it wants. It typically selects one person in a married couple, when one member is distant. The buggane copies the missing member throughout the day, and waits until it is in bed with the other spouse before revealing its true form, that of a hideous green monster, and killing the spouse. It will then commonly wait around for days for the other spouse to return when it does the trick again but this time as the opposite spouse.
Changeling- There are tens of thousands of changelings living in Esus’s hell, they can appear in any form and read their victim’s minds to perfectly mimic the voice and mannerisms of those they copy. There they recreate any community or place that Esus desires to deceive those trying to escape hell into forfeiting hope and returning. Unlike most of the hell’s denizens, Changelings are alive, not demons.
Half-Changelings- Occasionally Changelings are sent into the mortal world of Erebus to perform tasks for Esus. They often sire children (most commonly by replacing a lover) with mortal women. Though it is rare that half-changelings will gain their father’s shape shifting ability, they are often wildly erratic, hurtful and disloyal. They are quick to sacrifice those who may care about them for their self-interest or even amusement.
Gwyllion- Once beautiful members of the winter court the Gwyllion angered Faeryl Viconia, queen of the winter court, early in the Age of Magic and Faeryl transformed their pointed silver crowns into goats horns and their feet into goat hooves. They can occasionally be found at the edges of elven lands and have the ability to transform into goats. Gwyllion are tricky and known to steal from humans, but they are afraid of metal (and Faeryl).
Mistform- Esus traveled to the dark hell of Agares only to find it deserted and in ruin. Disliking such a barren world Esus breathed life into the dust and a people half-formed appeared, shadows of a lost people. These people he named the mistforms and he brought them into Erebus. Mistforms can attack people, but if left alone typically avoid any contact with men and go through their own patterns and habits with little regard for the surrounding world. These habits seem to have little purpose and many suspect they are dreaming they are in a world that no longer exists.
Nyxkin- Esus gifted the Svartalfar, the winter court side of the elven civil war, with a breed of large panthers that were strong mounts as well as powerful attackers in their own right. A nyxkin is a Svartalfar warrior who is bound to one of these panthers. The bond is so great that if either side dies, the other will as well.
Sceadugengan- The sceadugengan are shadow beasts who are able to change form. They are more closely related to elementals than true beasts or demons. They roam in dark, secluded locations and rarely show themselves unless summoned by a shadow caster or priests of Esus.
Shadowrider- Dark riders and the elite of Esus’s humanoid units. When deception has finally reached its limit Esus turns to the shadowriders. The shadowrider’s most powerful ability is to ignore physical material, allowing them to charge right through walls or shieldmen to get at other targets. Conversely bright light acts as a physical barrier for them and they are unable to enter a brightly lit area, extremely slow in sunlight, and a focused beam of light will cut through them.
Sleagh Maith (unique)- The Maith is a silent, moonlit procession of ethereal fairylike spirits. Most mortals are unable to see the procession, but those who can see it and keep the secret of its existence enjoy the beauty of their passing for many nights. Those who are unable to keep their secrets die and join the procession in the afterlife.
Will-o’-the-Wisp- These pale balls of light often lead the unwary into the darkest and most dangerous sections of a wild area, where they abandon them to be lost or die something more foul.
Mammon
Auxhound- These dogs resemble thin grey hounds with a long anteater-like snout. They can sniff out treasure of all sorts and are greatly prized by adventurers and thieves.
Dustman- Dustmen cause mortals around them to fall asleep. A mortal won’t age or need food or water while under the effect of a dustman’s sleep and it’s possible for a victim to be bound for centuries trapped in perpetual sleep.
Endormillon- These withered gray creatures can enter and affect the dreams of those around them. They commonly use this power to manipulate people by giving them fakes messages from the gods or warnings to perform activities the Endormillon wants.
Haegtesse- Often simply referred to as Hags, these crones have the power to paralyze a sleeping man by sitting on his chest, and to give him nightmares so traumatic that he will die from them. They are also said to have strong prophetic powers, though they tend to mislead those asking for guidance. Despite their feeble appearance their claws are as strong as iron and they are stronger than most men.
Morphores- Small leech-like worms that attach themselves to mortals they come into contact with. They slowly feed on the victim’s blood and cause incredibly vivid nightmares when the victim sleeps. The Sheaim believe Morphores to be prophetic and sometimes subject themselves to a morphores feeding voluntarily.
Trow- Trow appear as dirty, ugly dwarves. They are greedy and slovenly especially when it comes to food. And they aren’t above killing someone to take something they like. They aren’t capable builders and tend to try to live in others’ homes, preferring cellars, sewers and crypts, though they will accept caves if nothing else is available. A surprising number of Trow can live in a cellar for years without the owners knowing. Their only redeeming feature is that Trow are frequently talented musicians, especially when playing the fiddle. They may also show favor to those who play music or sing for them.
Mulcarn
Aquilan- The Aquilan are great eagles that dwell in the heart of blizzards. Many assume that the aquilan seek out the blizzards, but in truth the blizzards are formed wherever the aquilan are.
Drifa, the White Dragon (unique)- Drifa was the greatest weapon of Mulcarn, god of winter. She is a powerful dragon and now that Mulcarn is dead she may even agree to serve a powerful master. Her price for doing so is that she must be given a kingly sacrifice (that’s the sacrifice of a king, not just a really good sacrifice).
Frost Giant- These giants once battled in the Age of Dragons, then most retreated into Mulcarn’s hell after the compact was signed. After a brief resurgence during the Ade of Ice they are now scattered and infrequent outside of Mulcarn’s hell.
Frostling- Similar to goblins in size and disposition, frostlings are the weakest members of Mulcarn’s army. They may at first seem playful, making elaborate snow sculptures on the tundra, and engaging in snowball fights with each other. But they quickly turn on others who try to join their games. And more than one victim has wandered amazed through their snowy sculptors of dragons, castles and gods only to find that their greatest sculptor was a carefully laid cover of ice and snow over a pit that traps the victim.
Mokka (unique)- Mokka is a frosting chieftan with some magical ability. He can summon ice creatures and carries a cauldron that raises as a demon anyone placed in it.
Hollow Man- Hollow men are the ghosts of those who served Mulcarn in the Age of Ice. They are most common around Letum Frigus and typically appear and thin, pale, indefinite creatures that are nearly invisible in a snowstorm. They rarely attack formidable opponents, preferring to find those freezing in the wastes and steal the last bits of warmth from their bodies.
Kocrachon- This cloud of biting locusts drains the strength of its victims, who will eventually become unable to sustain their own weight. In the hells this torment lasts forever. In Erebus the Kocrachon lay eggs in victims who will live until the eggs hatch and thousands of new Kocrachon come bursting out of them.
Nive- The nive are large beasts covered in thick grey fur. They are typically so covered in snow that they are almost impossible to distinguish from the terrain, especially in snowstorms.
Tar Demon- Tar demons are amorphous spirits of those trapped in the vast swamp between the throne of hell and the city of Dis. Though they prefer not to engage in battle, when compelled to they are strong and almost immune to damage.
Winter Wolf- When Mulcarn ushered the Age of Ice onto Erebus the Doviello pledged their allegiance to him. The Doviello lived as one with wolf packs and Mulcarn transformed their wolves to be able to survive the eternal winter.
Creations of Men
During the Age of Magic men dabbled in the arts of Necromancy much as in the Age of Rebirth. But the experiments undertaken by the masters of Life magic were even more foul. Arawn was god of both dominions, as Sucellus had not yet fallen to Mulcarn, and was still the God of Nature. No mortal knows how Arawn rules the afterworld, but he pays little attention to this one, no matter what sacrilege is done with the powers he maintains. Raising the dead, binding souls and making corpses into unfeeling servants are vile acts. But the students of Leucetios did worse. They wanted to create new life and they imagined themselves gods over their crudely formed creations. Unsatisfied with soldiers with enchanted arms or augmented animals they cut their servants together in an attempt to create new races. During the Patrian civil war the rebels charged archmage towers to find them guarded by enraged unnatural beasts, grown powerful by magic and accustomed to feeding on human flesh. Great lions with wings and scorpion tails, lizardmen that could regenerate lost limbs and breathe water, creatures with the bodies of powerful bears and dozens of venomous snake heads, chimera, ravenmen, manscorpions, wolves with the minds and sleek, black exoskeleton of beetles. Most of these creatures were driven mad by their mixed biology. Few survived the Patrian civil war, even less made it through the Age of Ice. Ceridwen allowed some to slip into hidden places, waiting for a time when their strength would be needed. Others still haunt this world.
Aasimar- The product of an angelic and a mortal parent. Aasimar weren’t unusual before the compact was signed and many men could trace a remote angelic parentage at some point in their ancestry. Many angels watch over their distant descendants and take pride in those that continue to display their virtues.
Cambion- The product of a demonic and a mortal parent. Just as the unions of angelic and human parents wasn’t uncommon before the compact was signed, neither were births between demons and humans. As with the Aasimar demons often take great interest in those who share their bloodline.
Centaur- Of the beasts formed by men only the centaurs retain some part of their noble nature. Many creatures were made from the bodies of men, but they were often reduced to the passions of their bestial form. Perhaps it is because the animal they were made from, the majestic stallions of the Cerici, were known for their docile nature as well as their strength. But do not assume that the Centaurs are passive. Those creeping into their glades expecting gentle pacifists bounding away like deer when they see strangers will be surprised by the firm, battle-hardened giants they find. Centaurs are fond of war paint and other body art, thick, dangerous weapons, and feasts of wild fruit and meat so undercooked it drips with blood.
Chimera- Most commonly a chimera is a creature with the head of a goat, a dragon and a lion. But varieties with other combinations of heads have also been encountered. They are aggressive fighters and nearly impossible to sneak up on.
Ettin- Unfortunately putting two heads on a hill giant doesn’t make it any smarter.
Giant Animals- There are giant versions of most animals in Erebus. There are beetles larger than horses and turtles larger than houses.
Griffon- A mix of eagles and lions, griffons make loyal mounts and pets to those who are able to tame them. They enjoy dangerous flying so less reckless riders will probably only ride a griffon once.
Hill Giant- Large and dumb, hill giants make bad neighbors and unpredictable allies.
Hydra- Hydras have a stocky reptilian body with up to a few dozen snake necks and heads atop of it. Hydras can attack in all directions at once and the largest have heads that can reach up to ten feet away from the body. To add to their destructive ability some are poisonous and the bite of some exudes a powerful acid.
Lizardman- Mortals magically crossed with lizards created this race. The grey lizardmen are descended from humans and tend to be slower and stronger than the others. Green lizardmen are descended from elves and prefer to make their homes deep in the jungle. Blue lizardmen, named for the bands along their chest, are descended from the Aifons.
Manticore- Lions with wings and tails that can fire iron spikes larger than a crossbow bolt. A full grown manticore stands nearly seven feet at the shoulder. Manticores have a voracious appetite and there are few who can afford to feed them when they are kept as guards. Likewise they are likely to overhunt their area when living in the wild and are unable to settle in one area.
Minotaur- A Minotaur is a tall humanoid with the head of a bull. They are vigilante guardians, and outside of being unable to resist a fight they mind they are reliable soldiers.
Shade- Sometimes called “the Grey” or “the Breathless” Shades are men that gain immortality by slowly spending their soul in a ritual developed by Laroth and snuck out of the underworld by the “Once Elves.” Over centuries shades lose their passion, and though they continue to live they become passionless shadows of their former selves.
Troll- Trolls can recover from any injuries short of being completely consumed by fire or acid. Troll blood is the primary ingredient in healing potions. Trolls tend to be green skinned, larger than men and always hungry. They can be exceedingly loyal to those they serve, and are fearless warriors, but are even dumber than Ogres.
Twisted Men- These ragged men are either hired as a poor substitute for mercenaries or they can be found living in the worst parts of human cities (typically in the sewers). They appear as men in tatters who have been struck by lightning and often have odd objects simply sticking to them. They are afraid of storms and scarecrows (which they resemble).
Vampire- A vampire is man who extends his own life by consuming that of others. This process increases the power of the vampire beyond mortal bounds.
Moroi- Moroi are men who drink the blood of vampires. This small taste vampiric power gives them enhanced strength and speed, and a feeling of invulnerability beyond that of their still-mortal form. The Calabim often make Moroi out of those they wish to sacrifice in combat. A Moroi who serves particularly well and survives the various suicide missions he is sent on is occasionally gifted with true vampirism.
Wyvern- A wyvern is a large flying serpent with a tail ending in a scorpion’s stinger. They are rare in the Age of Rebirth, having been hunted almost to extinction by knights responding to reports of them stealing livestock or threatening rural families.
Elementals- Elementals are spirits from the elemental vaults bound into a physical form on Erebus. They are not alive. There are as many types as there are inorganic materials to inhabit. Commonly these tend toward fire, earth, air and water elements but they can inhabit sand, smoke, sunlight, darkness, gold, lightning, lava, and a variety of other forms. The strength of the elemental is determined by that of the spirit that was summoned and the purity of the element he was summoned into. For example, one mage had the habit of summoning earth elementals from graveyards, and though horrifying to have the corpses and coffins of the dead as part of the elemental’s body it weakened the elemental.
Golems- Golems are enchanted statues that can range from simple workers, in the case of mud golems, to the elaborate machinery of the clockwork golem. They can be made from any materials though forms of stone are the most common (because of its durability), though wood and human flesh have been used. Golems aren’t alive and follow their ordered tasks without regard to morality or consequence.
Perversions of Death
Banshee- A banshee is the ghost of an elven woman who died traumatically. Their song can kill those who hear it. One banshee wanders the swamps southwest of the Umbrawood with the ghost of her dead baby in her arms.
Drown- Created by dark rites the Drown are similar to zombies but guided by unholy power. They are also capable swimmers, and are often used to attack enemy ships. Lich- Archmages proficient in death mage who wish to bypass death and gain some sort of immortality can become liches. A lich is the archmage’s undead form, sustained through magic. The body becomes a cage for the archmage’s soul. Some liches maintain the illusion of life through spells that preserve their body.
Revenant- Revenants are spirits raised to avenge themselves. These are rarely just men and are were typically murderers in life, finally killed by someone equally corrupt.
Sailor’s Dirge (unique)- This legendary ship patrols all of Erebus’s oceans. Its crew is a host of undead so thick at times that they hang from sides and fill up the hull. The magic of the ship is such that each night any damage to the ship is repaired (at least back to its normal rotted mossy condition) and any corpses onboard are raised as undead. Pyre zombies are the only undead that aren’t welcome on the Sailor’s Dirge.
Skeleton- Souls bound into the skeletal remains of a creature. Most of the time it’s a human but they can also be animals or magical beasts. Skeletons have few thoughts beyond wanting to end life and they will attack anyone they come into contact with. Necromancers have to use magic to give them an aura of the undead to keep their skeletons from attacking them. Occasionally a skeleton will become obsessed with some fragment of his former life. A skeleton may carry a teddy bear, guard the ruins of a house, or wander behind a flock of sheep.
Spectre- Sometimes when someone so corrupt and vile dies the ground will not accept them. Heaven and even the afterworld are closed to them, it should be demons that bear their souls to hell. But occasionally the demons will leave them in creation. Bitter and dark these souls turn into spectres. Eventually demons will come for them, but until then the soul has more time to haunt the world.
Wraith- It takes a mastery of necromancy to create wraiths. They are powerful creatures who become even more so the more death energy they are given. Wraiths age victims by touching them, and even the slightest touch of flesh by a wraith will leave it withered and cold for the rest of the person’s life.
Zombie- Zombies are a small step up from skeletons both in power and in mental capacity. Though unable to say more than a few gurgling words, they understand simple instructions well enough and can be trained not to attack certain people.
Diseased Corpses- Diseased corpses are zombies infected with highly contagious, often lethal, diseases. They were first created by the Ashen Veil and used to attack, and be killed by, much larger armies. The triumphant army would believe they were victorious, until in the following days their members would begin to die.
Pyre Zombie- Pyre zombies are zombies that are infused with fire magic. Not only do they burn, but when they die the fire is released and it explodes out of them, burning anything nearby

======================================================================
PAGE: Danalin
CATEGORIES: Gods, Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Danalin
======================================================================

Danalin is the God of Water. He and
Tali
, the trikster god of Air, were very close friends.  He was among the least active in creation, choosing to keep to his people (The
Aifons
, men whose time with Danalin physically changed them to the point of being able to breath water as easily as air, and to build an undersea empire) instead of fighting other gods.  He agreed to the Compact, thinking little of it because he had never really fought in the Godswar to begin with.  He would come to regret this decision.
Some time in the Age of Magic, the Aifons faced a dire threat. The details of the history are murky, so we don't know what ecactly the threat was, but it threatened the Aifon's extinction.  The Greatest Aifon Hero,
Trenton Majosi
, who had been trained as a master of Water magic by Kylorin himself, traveled throughout all of Erebus looking for salvation for his people.  Eventually he found it: A Ritual that would allow him to summon his god himself into creation to save them all.  He prepared (and perhaps began) to cast it, but them had a change of heart.  Although he knew his people had no other hope, he came to realize that the threat of starting another Godswar was greater still, to all the peoples of Erebus.  And so he chose not to cast it, and thus to let all his people die.
Danalin watched this all in horror, knowing there was nothing he could do to save the people he so loved. He weapt, and his silver tears streaked across the sky, where they still remain. He did not want to face a world free of Aifons, so he withdrew into himself, choosing to sleep indefinitely.  And in this sleep, he dreamed.
Even in sleep, a god has great power. The power of his unconscious mind was manifested in creation, as his dreams came true.  What did he dream of? Well, they say that everyone in our dreams really represent ourselves. In his case, he dreamed of a dreamer, who, like him, dreamed effectively.  This man was
Hemah
.
However, his dreams were not entirely his own. With the Vault of Water dormant,
Hastur
, Lord of Nightmare, the Archangel of
Mammon
, the evil god of the Mind and Greed, snuck in and began to whisper in his ear.  It is not within his power to control the mind of a god, but he does have undue influences. Thus, the Dreams of Danalin are now dark, and Hemah's nightmares have destroyed all he ever loved.
The Greatest, Darkest, Strongest Dreams of Hemah live on long after he awakens.  These are the
Overlords
, the great power under the Aegean.  Danalin is worshiped indirectly though these vile, chaotic, insane beings, who have driven his followers also into insanity.  They are more influenced by Hastur than Danalin himself, but these are loyal to no gods.
See Also
Aifons
The Gods
Octopus Overlords

======================================================================
PAGE: Great People
CATEGORIES: Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Great_People
======================================================================

A
Great Person
is a unit representing a uniquely talented individual. Great People (GPs) have many powerful abilities. All GPs can be settled in a city, becoming a Superspecialist of their respective type. With the exception of Great Commander, all GPs can also start a Goldn Age or help discover a Tech. In addition, some Great People have a special building that only they can build in a city, and some have a special operation which they can perform in a city.
Types and Abilities
Here is a table of
Great People
, showing their type, their production as a superspecialist, their special building (if any) and its effects, and their special operation on a city.
Type
Superspecialist
Building
One time usage
Great Engineer
3
+3
Hurry Building or Wonder production (500+ hammers) - not usable for units or Rites
Great Bard
+3
, +12
Song of Autumn
religious shirne
Great work (+4000 culture in the city)
Great Merchant
+1
+6
Nox Noctis
religious shirne
Trade mission (2000+ gold from distant foreign city)
Great Prophet
3
+5
any
Religious Shrines
-
Great Sage
+1
,
+6
Academy
or
Stigmata on the Unborn
religious shirne
Tech bulb
(+ xxxx science)
Great Commander
+2 exp for new units
Command Post
+25% production for military units
Generation of Great People
There are three independent mechanisms by which Great People are generated in the game:
in cities via Great Person points
to be the first civilization to complete the research of certain technologies
via combat (for Great Commander only)
Great People Points
Most Great People in the game are generated by a mechanism called
Great People points
(
GPPs
). Each city has a GPP counter that tracks how many GPPs have been produced in that city. The GPP counter is displayed in the lower right corner of the city screen. In addition, the BUG mod displays the GPP counter for the city which is currently projected with the soonest completion of a Great Person on the main screen.
Each civilization has a threshold for the generation of its next Great Person, which increases when (and only when) a new GP is born via the GPP mechanism. (That is, the GP threshold is not affected when you get Great People via tech.)
Note that specialist in city have special notation:  a small icon on top of the specialist image mean:
a small V: 5 specialists
a small triangle: 10 specialists
a small square with a triangle inside: 20 specialists
GPPs are generated in a city in three ways:
non-citizen Specialist in a city; you get 3 GPPs per specialist per turn.
world wonders generate 2 GPPs/turn
national wonders generate 1 GPP/turn.
When any city reaches the GP threshold, it creates a new Great Person. When this happens, that city's GPP counter has the threshold amount subtracted (that is, it goes to zero, or just above zero if there is overflow). The threshold is then increased, making it harder to generate the next Great Person.
The GP threshold starts at 100 GPPs, then goes up by 100 (Normal game speed) for each of the first 10 GPs born. After that it rises by 200 points per GP. On Epic speed, the GP threshold is 150% of that on normal; on Marathon, 300%; on Quick, just 67%. This information is summarized in the following table:
Great Person Threshold 
         1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13
Quick   67  134  200  267  334  400  467  534  600  667  800  934 1067
Normal 100  200  300  400  500  600  700  800  900 1000 1200 1400 1600 
Epic   150  300  450  600  750  900 1050 1200 1350 1500 1800 2100 2400
Mara.  300  600  900 1200 1500 1800 2100 2400 2700 3000 3600 4200 4800
All GPPs have a "flavor." When a Great Person is born via the GPP mechanism, the type of Great Person is randomly determined using the percentage of each kind of GPP that was accumulated in that city.
External Links
http://forums.civfanatics.com/showthread.php?t=146174
See Also
List of Great Pepole Names

======================================================================
PAGE: History of Erebus
CATEGORIES: Gods, Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/History_of_Erebus
======================================================================

The Birth of Time
In the beginning there was the One creator (God). Such was His power that all He spoke and thought was truth. When first He spoke He made a place of glory and a throne from which He could sit and view all of His creation. This place He named heaven and His throne was called order. The One spoke of a blue orb that rested on the arm of His throne. This orb He named temperance and to it was given the power to control the flow of time.
The Time of Angels
It was now that the One began to speak of new creations. Each one He created He gave a unique name and the twin gifts of life and free will. Each creation was created differently but to the whole He gave the name angels. There were twenty-one angels created and each was appointed to be the head of a divine precept.
Each angel was made to serve the One and to serve the creations that would come after. For the first time other voices were heard as they began to sing and praise the One.
The angels were:
v
Lugus – Angel of Light
v
Sirona – Angel of Wisdom
v
Bhall – Angel of Fire
v
Nantosuelta – Angel of Faith
v
Nemed – Angel of Life
v
Amathaon – Angel of Fertility
v
Junil – Angel of Justice
v
Arawn – Angel of Death
v
Oghma – Angel of Knowledge
v
Danalin – Angel of the Water
v
Dagda – Angel of Balance
v
Kilmorph – Angel of the Earth
v
Sucellus – Angel of Nature
v
Tali – Angel of the Air
v
Camulos – Angel of Peace, who would become the Angel of War
v
Aeron – Angel of Strength, who would become the Angel of Rage
v
Ceridwen – Angel of the Stars, who would become the Angel of Magic
v
Mammon – Angel of Foresight, who would become the Angel of Greed
v
Esus – Angel of Trust, who would become the Angel of Deception
v
Mulcarn – Angel of Ice, who would become the Angel of Winter
v
Agares – Angel of Hope, who would become the Angel of Despair
The Birth of Man
Heaven was full of many wonders which the angels spent much duration studying and praising. When the One felt them ready He commanded them to take flight outside the boundaries and to fill the vacuum with creations that mirror those of heaven. He gave them the power of creation. So the angels set off in every direction, creating as it pleased them to create a host of worlds true and good that would serve the One.
When the creation was done there was a variety of worlds and a nearly endless array of life upon them. Each angel created a world in their own preference and all the angels contributed to a common world, called Erebus, which was their greatest creation.
Although all manner of life and substance had been created in the world, the angels wished to create something greater than their individual aspects. Together they agreed to create a race of men that would contain a gift from each of them. This race would be directly descended from the angels and Nemed agreed to sacrifice his precept and become the father of this new race. His precept, that of life, was given over to Arawn and the angels created an immortal female named
Gabella
to s
erve as his wife.
The One entered Creation where he stood upon a white stone slab and viewed all things. Seeing this work as good, the One took back the power of creation from the angels.
The Fall of Agares
Unknown to the other angels, Agares was not willing to lose the power of creation. Knowing he could not hope to keep the power from being taken from him and that he would be left only with the power to manipulate what already existed, he used the power while he had it to create infinite wells of raw elements, air, earth, fire, water, life and death. At the center of these infinite reaches he placed gems of each of these elements which he had secreted out of heaven itself. When the power of creation was lost to him he still had enough matter and energy that he could go on creating until the end of time.
Once the power of creation was taken from him, Agares continued creating in his own world, which he called Nyx, with his infinite plains of elements. He created Nyx not in the fashion of heaven but as he desired. The creatures of this world were not told of other angels or the One, and Agares commanded they worship him alone. Nyx was a world painted in black and gold, a shadowy reflection of heaven, where the precept of hope controlled every aspect. Dreams, desire, worship and want ruled the shallow creatures that inhabited the beautiful world.
The other angels noticed that Agares continued creating. Agares claimed that it was cruel to take the power of creation away from them and that the One was jealous that their creations had outshone heaven itself. Six angels sided with Agares as they were eager to regain the power of creation and he showed them his infinite wells and how to use them to create. These angels were Camulos, Aeron, Ceridwen, Mammon, Esus and Mulcarn.
It was then that the One intervened. Seeing Agares' blasphemy He sought to remove it from all of creation. By this point however, Agares' taint had spread through all of creation, nothing existed that would still exist if He removed the evil from it. So pervasive was Agares' corruption that if the One entered
Creation
it would be destroyed by His holiness. Unwilling to destroy
Creation
, the One condemned all the angels out of heaven, to live amongst
Creation
until the day He returns to separate the good from the evil. The One tasked the angels still loyal to Him with protecting
Creation
and guiding it toward enlightenment until the day He returned.
Those angels that followed Agares opposed the One's decree and took up arms against the angels loyal to him. From this point on the angels that fell were known as evil by men, those that opposed them and were charged with protecting mankind were known as good, and the seven tasked with maintaining the functions of creations besides man were known as the angels of neutrality.
After throwing all of the angels from Heaven, the One sundered the path between Heaven and Creation so that none but Him could pass between them. In response to this, all the angels, except Agares, created a host of new angels to serve them. The first they created was their archangel, and behind them thousands more to spread their will across Creation.
The archangels were:
v
Amathaon – Maponos the Young
v
Sucellus –
Cernunnos
v
Bhall –
Brigit the Shining
v
Kilmorph – Goibniu
v
Lugus – Baelious ("Fortune")
v
Aeron –
Odio
(who was imprisoned by Kilmorph during the Age of Dragons)
v
Dagda –
Cassiel
v
Mammon – Hastur, Lord of Nightmares
v
Junil –
Sabathiel
v
Oghma – Embarr ("Imagination")
v
Camulos –
Avatar of Wrath
v
Nantosuelta – Splendor
v
Ceridwen – Kanna, Mistress of Pain
v
Sirona – Pelian the Suffering
v
Esus – Iaegus
v
Tali – Leucetious, Bringer of Storms
v
Arawn – Gyra and
Basium
, twins
v
Danalin – Condatis
v
Mulcarn – Taranis the Unchanging
v
Agares – None (until the later creation of
Hyborem
, Lord of Balors)
But Agares, not satisfied to play the One's game, did the opposite. He returned to Nyx and destroyed everything there, every creature he had created, every monument that had been built. In one burst of power the beautiful world of Nyx was reduced to ash. The world lies to this day barren, it is called the deepest hell and none would suspect that it was once a world of surprising life.
Creation
In the beginning all manner of natural animals and plants existed in
Creation
, much as in our world.
Gabella mirrored the rebellion of Agares by refusing to endure her role as a subordinate to man. She fled from Nemed and retreated to the Bair of Lacuna. Further generations of men have the gift of immortality removed from them. But still their divine birthright makes their souls immortal, even if their bodies fail. It is this connection to the divine, through the angel of Nemed, which allows men to channel the power of the angels and allows their souls to pass to them when they die.
At the sixth generation of men,
Os-Gabella
returned and stole two children,
Alexis and
Flauros
, to raise as her own. These children became the first
vampires
, killing others to sustain their life throughout the ages.
Age of Dragons
Unable to overcome their differences, the gods began to war across
Creation
. As in all things, the gods' desires became physically manifested and their aggression was acted out by powerful creatures that battled against each other.
Giants
, great
elementals
, the
gods
themselves and later
dragons
unleashed incredible magic and, with it, threatened to destroy
Creation
. Mountains were created and destroyed; chasms and lakes were created like gaping scars. The wars between the angels were fought across the faces of the worlds while men and other races huddled in caves, fearful of the power being unleashed around them. It was during these days that the
dragons
were born, mighty creatures empowered by the angels to fight in their battles alongside them.
During this time, hundreds of angels succumbed to the whispers of Agares. These fell from the service to the angel that had created them. To this day, Agares has more angels in his service than any other angel, but none of them were created by his hand. Even his archangel,
Hyborem
, is a corruption of another's creation.
Cernunnos, the great horned one, was the archangel of Sucellus. He dared to attack Agares directly. Agares picked up the powerful archangel and showed him visions of himself dark and corrupted. So powerful was the vision that it became real, splitting Cernunnos into two creatures. They were identical in form but the new creature, which Agares named
Hyborem
, was dark in aspect and colored in blood.
Hyborem
and Cernunnos fought, but neither could defeat the other. As such, even the archangel of Agares was stolen from another, created merely as a perversion of the natural.
Sucellus and Danalin remained largely out of the fighting, and instead tended to their respective groups of men that venerated them and became changed over time by the close presence of their own patron god. For Sucellus these men become the
Ljosalfar
, elves born to nature. For Danalin these men become the
Aifons
, men who could breathe water as well as air.
Mankind, the greatest pride of the gods, was almost threatened with extinction.
Immanuel Logos
, a tribal leader, began the order of the
Elohim
at the close of this age to care for those injured in the Godswar.
Seeing the devastation they were wrecking on the lands and that they would have nothing to show but bloody battlefields when the One returned, Dagda commanded the fighting to stop. With the aid of Arawn, Kilmorph and Oghma, he threatened to fight against whoever acted aggressively in the conflict. Dagda had enough angels that agreed with him that the others knew it was pointless to fight him. The gods met and the Compact was formed, an agreement that the gods would withdraw and only interfere with
Creation
through certain limited means. As a symbol of this alliance, a weapon of great power was made – the
Godslayer
. Created as a weapon with the power to slay a god, which was given over to the most powerful of human men, a warrior named Finner. This was a power that none of the gods held on their own.
For some, the Compact goes too far.
Basium
, the archangel of Arawn, disobeyed it and continues his battle against the
Infernal
regardless of the Compact. For others, it does not reach far enough.
Cassiel
, the archangel of Dagda, rebelled, believing that the gods should withdrawal completely from
Creation
instead of using men to fight their battles for them. Cassiel entered
Creation
to teach men to ignore the will of the gods.
Age of Magic
The war still continued, but more subtly than before. Saved from the destruction of the Godswar, man is able to form civilizations. One empire of men is created, Patria, and its people learn from and trade with the
Ljosalfar
(who at this point in time were a unified race) and the
Aifons
. It was during these days that the angels began to share their gifts with the races of the land. For the first time healers and
druids
began to appear. Each of the angels began to teach their followers in different ways, but the most powerful of these teachings came from Ceridwen, she sought to teach men the powers of the angels themselves, the men called it magic.
The Patrian nation became strong.
Basium's
battles largely took place in hell during this period, while
Cassiel
was revered among the Patrians who were more philosophical than religious. The children of
Os-Gabella
,
vampires
who learned how to leech life from others to sustain their own unnatural lifespan, are a scourge to mankind and the only real predators to humanity, but nevertheless were only a threat from the shadows, unable to directly challenge Human might. It is the most peaceful time in man's existence.
During this time, Kheldon Ki sculpts the dwarves from his prison home and they are given life by Kilmorph. They tunnel out over a few generations, exploring the underworld. They settle on hills near the human lands. After abuse by corrupt Patrian merchants, many retreated back to their tunnels, forming the unified nation of the
Khazad
. Other tribes however stayed on the surface, creating the
Luchuirp
, the open-sky dwarves, whose tradition of artifice and golem-crafting would lead to them becoming one of the most prosperous nations on Erebus, second only to the Patrian Empire.
Kylorin became the Emperor of the Patrians. He was a wise and popular ruler, loved by his people. When his wife betrayed him, Kylorin considered suicide by jumping from the top of his palace. Ceridwen, Queen of Pain, talked to him there, offering him another deal. That she would give Kylorin eternal youth and have his wife be resurrected in a new form each time she dies so that he may find and remarry her without the memory of her betrayal. The price
wa
s that Kylorin would worship Ceridwen and lead the Patrians according to her desires. Kylorin agreed.
Ceridwen gifted Kylorin with eternal youth and taught him magic. He became the first archmage and began teaching others how to use magic to enforce his ever more corrupt rule over Patria. In but a few generations his rule became absolute and vile. Sorcerers practiced bizarre experiments, creating monstrous creatures like Manticores, Chimeras, and Trolls, and ruled the fiefdoms in their control like gods. Kylorin directly trained twenty-one students and puts each in charge of a separate magical school.
These were the names of Kylorin's students:
v
Air
– Greysun
v
Body
– Kezef (whose experiments killed all the animals on the Grigi plains)
v
Chaos
– Carnivean
v
Creation – Majen (
elven
)
v
Death
–
Barbatos
v
Dimensional –
Os-Gabella
v
Earth
– Jenkin
v
Enchantment
– Velgyr
v
Entropy
– Asmoday
v
Fire
–
Mikel Dylantyr
v
Force – Paimon
v
Ice
– Badb
v
Law
– Soqed Hozi
v
Life – Leucetios
v
Metamagic – Gastrius
v
Mind
–
Perpentach
v
Nature
– Herve
v
Shadow
– Wode (
elven
)
v
Spirit
–
Laroth
(who would create his own empire in the underworld)
v
Sun
– Tamesis
v
Water
– Trenton Majosi (
Aifon
)
In those days there was no good magic, only good priests and very powerful evil wizards. There was only so much magic on a plane and man did not have the angels' ability to reach out to separate planes for their power. This wasn't much of a problem because the natural magic of the prime plane of Erebus was enough to power the relatively few wizards that Ceridwen had taught to channel it. But as more wizards learned to channel magic it became harder for any individual wizard to cast the more powerful spells.
While wizards numbered few, these were the days that the most powerful of wizards ever existed. They were almost invariably evil and created many evil artifacts, some of which will still exist in future ages. Fire was a holy weapon in these days and the goodly man's only defense against the unholy power of magic. Although it was rare for a wizard to fall, when they did it was almost always to the flames of the righteous devoted to Bhall.
The days of the Age of Magic were days of relatively peaceful times but always with strong undercurrents of superstition and fear. Spells could suddenly destroy cities or swallow seas, and magical weapons or enchantments could make a farmer's son into the most powerful of heroes, but it always had a cost. Such exquisite spellcraft and enchanting required endless experimentation, which would leave countless scores of innocents either dead or wishing they were. Kylorin eventually became regretful of what he had done to the empire of men and prayed for help. Nantosuelta answered these prayers and taught him how to be an even more powerful mage, Kylorin would use that power to lead a rebellion in his own empire. He set about subduing or killing the sorcerers who refused to repent, though some escaped his purge.
One such mage was
Perpentach
, the master of mind magic and a favored student of Kylorin. Kylorin was unwilling to kill him, imprisoning him instead in a dungeon in the Tower of Eyes, guarded by unthinking
golems
. But
Perpentach
was more talented than Kylorin suspected, and was able to send his consciousness out wandering further and further from his prison. Searching, creating illusions and controlling minds miles from the dungeon in a process that strained him to the point of fracturing his mind. But he drew hundreds of men to his prison, made them fight and defeat the
golems
, release him, and declare him their ruler. Kylorin would no doubt have made to capture him again, but the
Age of Ice
would arrive shortly after this escape and prevent this, leading to these ensorcelled people eventually becoming the
Balseraphs
in the Age of Rebirth.
The war splinters the unified empire of Patria, with Kylorin leading good religious forces against the creations and unholy magic of the sorcerers. By the end, seven independent human nations have been formed :
v
The
Elohim
, keepers of memories and guardians of the sacred parts of the world.
v
The
Bannor
, keepers of the sacred fire and the greatest enemies of the sorcerers.
v
The
Malakim
, desert nomads and men of faith.
v
The
Lanun
, merchants and seamen.
v
The
Hippus
, horselords and mercenaries with no allegiance but to coin.
v
The
Grigori
, followers of
Cassiel
.
v
The
Illians
, who dwelt in the tundra and frozen North.
Creation settled into its new form. There were still many powerful evils in the world. Such as, the sorcerers who still hid in the land and the monsters who roamed the wilderness now that their masters were dead. There were many jobs for adventurers willing to recover lost artifacts or investigate hidden areas. However, with the fall of the Patrian Empire, the formerly united race of Man was free to war against itself and other nations.
It was during this time that the Aifon Trenton Majosi set out on a quest to save his people. He returned with the only salvation possible, a ritual that would allow Danalin to enter
Creation
and save his children. Rather than take the risk of reigniting to the Godswar, Trenton didn't perform the ritual and both he and the Aifons seemingly vanished from Creation. The loss of his children from Creation caused Danalin to withdraw, falling into a sleep from which he hasn't awoken.
Agares; the first to fall; was whispering to Bhall; the Angel of Fire; for the duration of the Age of Magic, and she eventually succumbed to his words. This was the end of the Age of Magic. Bhall fell from heaven and that night the sky rained fire. Men of the
Bannor
, along with all others who had worshiped Bhall, save those who at the time were in the
Bannor
capital of Barduk, were transformed into hideous orcish races, redubbing themselves the
Clan of Embers
. The capital of the
Bannor
empire, which held Bhall's greatest temple, dropped with her into hell.
The ritual uncovered by Trenton Majosi had somehow found its way into the hands of the
Illians
. They had no fear of a Godswar, since Bhall was responsible for opposing their patron deity
Mulcarn
. With Bhall fallen, their lord was unopposed and his dispossessed people saw an opportunity to have more than the scraps left for them by the rest of humanity.
The world was on fire and although many seers and prophets immediately knew when the ritual began, no empires could afford to send their armies to stop the ritual when it was being performed. Only the
Luchuirp
were able to rally an army. They were golem makers so their army was not as strongly affected by the flames destroying the agriculture of all nations. The
Luchuirp
assailed the
Illian
capital with the full force of their battle machines, but they were too late. Just as they broke through the city walls,
Mulcarn
entered
Creation
, and with a whisper the
Luchuirp
golem army was wiped out.
A permanent winter would set in across
Creation
.
Age of Ice
The gods considered this a breaking of the Compact. They were unwilling to restart the Godswar, but couldn't let
Mulcarn
move into creation unchallenged. They agreed to let one god go into
Creation
to fight
Mulcarn
. That god was Sucellus, the god of Nature.
Sucellus entered
Creation
and battled with
Mulcarn
. At the same time the
Ljosalfar
turned on themselves. They had agreed to share power between two queens, one to rule during summer and the other during winter. The winter queen claimed dominance for years as winter showed no signs of ending and refused to give up the throne. This argument created a civil war and the new branch loyal to the winter queen called themselves the
Svartalfar
.
Sucellus ultimately lost the battle and was killed by
Mulcarn
. Creation froze even further and the elves were forced to stop their civil war as they could no longer mobilize armies. They tried to find hidden places in the world to remain, and waited for the winter to end to continue their war.
The empires of man were crushed by the blizzards and the power of
Mulcarn
. A few scattered tribes remained, but even these were little more than animals on the edge of survival. All the advancement of the Age of Magic was lost.
The
Illians
themselves lived better than most, being unnaturally attuned to the eternal winter and ice by the power of their god, but their god had little compassion and even they were forced to forgo the basic conveniences or technology of previous ages to maintain the unchanging will of Mulcarn.
Some tribes gathered together into a new civilization, the
Doviello
. These men embraced their bestial nature and became more like a pack of wolves than men. They served a use to
Mulcarn
by hunting and killing other tribes, whilst not interfering with the
Illians
. As they had little interest in the advancement and change of civilization that
Mulcarn
so abhorred, they were allowed to remain and spared the worst of Age of Ice's climate, being sheltered in more survivable tundra rather than arctic ice.
Some isolated tribes that were eking out an existence in the arctic wastelands as far away from the Illians and Doviello as possible, would find themselves relying upon the hunting prowess and shadowy powers of the nearly extinct
Vampire
race to survive. The vampires had been devastated even moreso than humanity, with them being reduced to only a handful of individuals, as the new destruction of all civilization had rendered their old hunting tactics of infiltration ineffective, being unable to hide amongst the isolated and desperate tribes of humanity without their true nature being revealed and promptly snuffed out. These individuals under the leadership of
Alexis
and
Flauros
; the children of
Os-Gabella
and the first vampires; would seek to make their race transition from parasite to master. Using their powers as immortals, unaffected by cold, or exhaustion, gifted with incredible vision and speed, they made sure the tribes they protected had plenty of food. All they asked for in return was an endless, expendable resource: blood. Using this along with their experience as masterful manipulators, and dangling the dark gift of immortality through vampirism to entice the strongest and smartest of men, the vampires were able to subvert the leadership of these tribes, and established themselves as the parasitic nobility and rulers of their new society of slaves and bloodpets. This new society was named the
Calabim
, and would be set to take the next age by storm.
One corner of Erebus held a respite from the winter. The fiery pit of Barduk that had formerly been the capital and temple dedicated to Bhall held a small portion of her essence, and so continued to burn, giving shelter to the orcs, who prospered in their corner of the world. Meanwhile their kin within Barduk, the last of the
Bannor
, trapped in hell, faced a constant struggle for survival. Junil, admiring their determination, sent his archangel
Sabathiel
to lead them out. They emerged late in the Age of Ice, in the heart of orcish territory, sparking the eternal conflict between the
Bannor
and the
Clan of Embers
.
Creation would have remained indefinitely like this had Kylorin not returned. He gathered scattered tribes of men under one banner, naming them the
Amurites
, a polity which would become one of the great powers of the next age. He reforged the broken pieces of the
Godslayer
and took it into battle against
Mulcarn
, killing him and ending the Age of Ice.
Age of Rebirth
After the death of the god of Winter, Sucellus was reborn, now the god of Life, shortly thereafter his archangel Cernunnos was appointed to succeed him as the new god of Nature. For the first time, a god passed between the Underworld and
Creation
, causing new doorways between these realms to be opened. Through one, a group of living elves, pulled long ago into Laroth's Underworld, escaped. They brought with them some stolen tomes from Laroth's studies in the underworld. One of which would be used by Sandalphon to teach men to become shades, creating the nation of the
Sidar
.
Much like the Doviello of the prior age, men from various tribes began to gather under a dark banner. This time they are responding to the promises of arcane power. Lead by
Tebryn Arbandi
and
Os-Gabella
, they are called the
Sheaim
, powerful summoners who share their secrets openly.
Lastly Hastur, archangel of Mammon, invaded the watery vault of Danalin. Finding the god still sleeping, Hastur began whispering to him, causing nightmares that are reflected in
Creation
, leading to the creation of the
Cult of the Undertow
, which would subvert the worship of Danalin nearly entirely.
When the ice receded, life had once again returned to areas that had been left vacant. Man was forced to rebuild again but did so a bit stronger, and a bit more knowledgeable than he had before. There were more sorcerers than there had ever been, but that wasn't to say they were commonplace. Because of this, any individual sorcerer's power could not compare to the legendary powers of the sorcerers of the Age of Magic, although as the age progressed, Archmages would eventually return amongst the nations of Erebus. The elves still remained split, and although most returned to the sunlit surface, some made a pact with darker forces and opted to stay in their deep home.
It is now the beginning of the Age of Rebirth. The Compact of Dagda broke into two factions, one dedicated to Dagda and another dedicated to his former archangel,
Cassiel
, who
continued to argue that the gods should follow the example of the One and turn their backs on
Creation
and allow it to succeed or falter on its own, not as part of their schemes.
Only in retrospect will the point that marks the move into the next age be known. It is suspected that the next age will be known as the Age of Enlightenment and be marked by a dramatic polarization of good and evil, law and chaos, which will be followed by the return of
The One
, with the deliverance of His judgment that ends Creation. Some sages predict that that Age of Enlightenment is already upon us and point to the nearly fanatical discipline imposed by the
Bannor
as evidence, a rigid polity so intolerant of infractions, that it is now becoming difficult to distinguish it from the likes of the most evil of totalitarianisms.
Evil cults seem to be taking root in even the most peaceful of farmland villages. Adventurers are sorely pressed to keep up with the activity as new creatures are spawned and ancient creatures are awakened to terrorize the land. In the shadows, it is whispered that the Godslayer may not be capable of killing a god forever and
Mulcarn
may return. Sages fear that like Sucellus, he may return more powerful than he left. Other rumors speak of a group of men that have found the gems at the center of the elemental planes that Agares stole so long ago. They say the gems of death, water and air are all being held by mortal men, now with as much power as the gods themselves.
It is said the outer planes mirror this activity, the long dormant war of belief on the planes has taken on new urgency, every planar border city taken is celebrated as if those commanding the war know the battle is almost done. Mankind has proven that it does not need the gods to survive; its growing maturity is removing the innocence that protected it so long ago, leading to increased angelic and demonic interference upon Erebus proper.

======================================================================
PAGE: Lugus
CATEGORIES: Gods, Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Lugus
======================================================================

Worshipped by
The Empyrean
, Lugus is the Angel of Light and Revelation, symbolized by the Sun. His religion recognizes the equality between all men, and all empires.  It is dedicated to discovering the Truth.  The Laws of Lugus are not Labyrinthian codeces like those of Junil, but basic precepts to follow as one studies the merits of each individual case. Worship of Lugus is tolerated by The Order, and The Bannor officially sanction his temples and preists in their capital. They are however required to join the Order in all their Crusades.  Although Lugus and Junil (and their respective followers) are powerful allies, they often disagree. As Capria says: "As the Order wages war, the Empyrean
discusses
." The followers of Lugus are known for their fatal flaw of continuing to talk and try to  figure out the best course of action, while letting time go by and their problems grow ever worse.
Lugus is the patron diety of the
Malakim
and
Varn Gosam
is his priest. Varn was given this position as a reward for his devotion to the truth, as exemplified by risking his life to save the innocent children (lead by the young
Auric Ulvin
) whom his brother Haerlond, King of the Once-Elves of the Shadowed Vale,  was going to have executed for supposedly stealing The Heartstone.  When His brother's army was closing in on them, Auric (who had come to realize a great, but largly uncontrolled, affinity for magic) reached out to the only faint source of mana he could find: The Sun. By channeling this he ripped though the vale of impenetrable mists that separated the Shadowed Vale From Creation. The Elves, having never seen the light of Day, were blinded. Varn, however, saw Lugus in this light, and devoted himself to being Lugus's first priest.  After leaving the Vale, he was found by wandering nomads who had never seen an elf other than their enemies, the evil Svartalfar.  Although his pallor and dark hair made him look like a dark elf, they took him in and cared for them. He went on to unite the Malakim and bring all their holy men together in Lugus' name.
Lanthis, an Acolyte of Lugus, was the first victim whose soul was consumed by
Alexis
.  Lugus cursed her for this, and this curse (combined with her own dark magic and acquired taste for blood) made her the first
vampire
. The curse carried on to all those whith whom she shared her "dark gift." Thus, direct sunlight always weakens a vampire and causes great pain, but it is not actually fatal.
He is commissioned to oppose the god
Esus, the Angel of Shadow
. His sphere is
Sun Magic
.

======================================================================
PAGE: Luonnotar
CATEGORIES: Disciple Units, Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Luonnotar
======================================================================

Luonnotar
Race:
Human
Unit Class:
Disciple Units
Requires:
Strength of Will
Grigori
Level 6 Unit
Starts With:
Cannot Pillage
+50% vs
Disciple Units
Medic I
Channeling II
Channelling III
Inquisitor
Magic Immune
Info:
10
1
Cost:
N/A
Upgrades From:
Any Level 6 Unit
The Luonnotar are a group who denies that the gods are gods at all. To many this is beyond blasphemy, it is idiotic.
The Luonnotar believe that the gods are nothing but petulant children. Instead, they claim that
the true creator god
will one day return and separate the good from evil, and punish those worshiping false gods.
But blasphemy is enough for
The Order
, and they rounded up those they could find (the Luonnotar are a secretive order). They were chained in the city plaza and told to repent for their blasphemy, to repent of their claims that the gods weren't real gods. The Luonnotar refused to repent, and a
Prior
of The Order of Junil called down a pillar of fire to destroy them. The pillar of fire scorched the stone of the plaza, burnt off the chains, and incinerated not only the Prior, but all of the other onlookers in the city plaza. However, the Luonnotar were left unharmed and as the only survivors of the firestorm.
They weren't killed because
Junil
was unwilling to harm those that were actually correct. But Junil feared that
The One
had somehow returned to creation without him or the other gods noticing, as he feared retribution from The One, he decided instead to cover-up their existence, killing his own followers so that they would not discover the truth.
The gods in general are confused about the Luonnotar, and worry that their knowledge might be evidence that The One has returned to tell them the truth (since the gods didn't tell them this and have instead surpressed all other knowledge that might indicate the truth behind the existence of the "gods"). The gods have, thus far, refused to act against the Luonnotar, our of fear that perhaps the one true God is watching and testing them.
In-game strategy
The Luonnotar are the most powerful disciple units the Grigori have access to, though they lack the spell abilities of the other religion's priests and high priests.
They can still act as effective healers for your armies and inquisition your cities to remove religions that have spread into them.
Like the other high priest units, they must be upgraded to from a level 6 unit, but unlike the other high priests, they can upgrade from almost any level 6 unit that the Grigori have, consider upgrading from a mage, as the Luonnotar has all the Channeling promotions, and can function as another archmage!
Furthermore, they have the second highest base strength of any disciple unit (10 vs the
Paladin's
11). Couple their +50% bonus versus other Disciple units with their Magic Immunity, and they will almost always defeat any other disciple unit (including Paladins) in combat.

======================================================================
PAGE: Magic
CATEGORIES: On the Nature of Magic
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/Magic
======================================================================

Background
Magic is a new feature unique to FFH2 (not found in Civilization IV). It introduces a new dimension of gameplay by allowing the existence of
Arcane
and
Disciple units
, which can complement and even supplement (at times) the conventional
Melee units
,
Mounted (Unit Class)
,
Archery (Unit Class)
and
Siege Weapons (Unit Class)
.
Arcane units are generally traditional magic-users associated with wizards, sorcerers, channelers and oracles, and Disciple units are generally religion-based magic-users associated with priests, clerics, and healers.
Arcane magic (generally) is more combat oriented with spells such as
Fireball
,
Maelstrom
, and
Summon Earth Elemental
, and Divine magic (generally) is more support-oriented with spells such as
Heal
,
Cure Disease
,
Bless
,
Revelation
and
Shield of Faith
(though there are a huge number of spell options and there do exist many exceptions: e.g.
Ring of Flames
,
Tsunami
and
Floating Eye
).
See also
Lore:
On the nature of magic
Extensive spell descriptions:
Spell
Mana type:
Mana nodes
Proposal for an enlarged Mana system including Heroes and Gods:
https://www.reddit.com/r/fallfromheaven/comments/a5nbqn/magic_of_fall_from_heaven/
Arcane Magic
Each Arcane unit may cast at most 1 spell a turn (unless it has the
Spellstaff
promotion which it can consume to cast again).
In order to cast a spell, an Arcane unit must have the corresponding promotions.
For example, to cast
Fireball
, which is a Rank 2 Fire spell, an Arcane unit must have both the
Channeling II
and
Fire II
promotions.
Rank 1 spells require
Channeling I
(which is automatically given to Adepts)
Rank 2 spells require
Channeling II
(which is automatically granted to Mages when upgraded from Adepts)
Rank 3 spells require
Channeling III
(which is automatically granted to Archmages when upgraded from Mages)
In order to obtain promotions like Fire I or Water I (learning new Spheres of Magic) requires the corresponding Mana Type resource.
Attention: you do not need the corresponding Tech, that is needed only to buid the Mana Nodes. If you acquire the Mana by other sources, like Shirnes, Wonders, trades, you are fine.
In order to obtain promotions such as
Fire III
or
Water III
, the previous levels of the corresponding promotions must be learned.
e.g.
Fire I
and
Fire II
must be learned before
Fire III
becomes available.
Note that the corresponding Mana type is not necessary to learn rank 2 and rank 3 spells
The number of
Archmage
units is limited to 4 per civilization (meaning that you can only have 4
Channeling III
Arcane units at any one time), but can be bypassed by promoting your Archmages to
Death III
which allows them to be converted to
Lich
units, allowing you to have 4 Archmages + 4 Liches, giving you 8
Channeling III
Arcane casters.
This can be further surpassed by taking advantage of
Sons of the Inferno
units spawned by
Acheron the Red Dragon
.
Divine Magic
Each Disciple unit may cast at most 1 spell a turn.
Disciple units do not learn new spells like Arcane units: they start with the appropriate channeling and
Divine
promotions in addition to a religion tag, which allows them to cast a specific set of spells according to the type.
All Disciple units' religions are set and cannot be randomly generated: e.g. Confessors and Priors will always be aligned with
The Order
and Ritualists will always be of
The Ashen Veil
religion.
The number of High Priests (Channeling III Divine casters) is limited to 4 per civilization, however, this can be bypassed by upgrading Channeling II Divine casters to
Druids
which have access to
Channeling III
, allowing you to have 4 High Priests of your current religion and 4 Druids of any religion, giving you 8 Channeling III Divine casters. (Note: this is a great way to have Channeling III Divine casters from different religions--normally you could not have a High Priest of the Order (a
Prior
) casting
Unyielding Order
as well as a High Priest of the Ashen Veil (a
Profane
)
summoning Balors
at the same time, but if you turned a
Ritualist
into a Druid and then converted to the Order, you could have a Druid casting
Summon Balor
and an actual Prior at the same time.)
Chalid Astrakein, a Disciple Hero associated with the
Empyrean
religion, is worthy of an entry here:
Pillar of Fire
can single-handedly destroy stacks and win wars.
Delay
The
Delay
cost of a spell forces the Caster to become immobile, and unable to cast, for the specified number of turns. When that time expires, the effects of the spell will occur.
The Spheres of Magic
To learn specific spells you will need Mana, gained by
Mana Nodes
or Palace Mana.
Palace Mana
Civilization
Mana
Amurites
Body
,
Fire
,
Metamagic
Balseraphs
Air
,
Chaos
,
Mind
Bannor
Earth
,
Law
,
Spirit
Calabim
Body
,
Law
,
Shadow
Clan of Embers
Body
,
Fire
,
Nature
Doviello
Body
,
Chaos
,
Earth
Elohim
Nature
,
Spirit
,
Water
Grigori
Enchantment
,
Spirit
,
Water
Hippus
Air
,
Nature
,
Horse
(resource)
Illians
Enchantment
,
Ice
,
Law
Infernal
Entropy
,
Fire
,
Iron
(resource)
Khazad
Earth
,
Law
,
Gold
(resource)
Kuriotates
Spirit
,
Sun
,
Water
Lanun
Air
,
Chaos
,
Water
Ljosalfar
Air
,
Life
,
Nature
Luchuirp
Earth
,
Enchantment
,
Life
Malakim
Life
,
Mind
,
Sun
Mercurians
Earth
,
Life
,
Iron
(resource)
Sheaim
Chaos
,
Death
,
Fire
Sidar
Enchantment
,
Shadow
,
Spirit
Svartalfar
Mind
,
Nature
,
Shadow
Node Bonuses
Sphere
Effect
Air
(none)
Body
Friendly units heal +5% per turn within your Cultural Borders
Chaos
2% mutation chance
Death
-1 relations with most civilizations (does not stack)
Earth
Increases chance of discovering resources from Mines
Enchantment
+1
Entropy
-2 relations with most civilizations (does not stack), enemy units heal -5% per turn within your Cultural Borders
Fire
(none)
Ice
(none)
Law
-5% maintenance costs
Life
+1
Metamagic
(none)
Mind
+3%
Nature
(none)
Shadow
(none)
Spirit
+5%
Sun
(none)
Water
(none)
See Also
Spells
Arcane (Unit Class)
Image
The spheres are the remains of the god's creation powers. Creation isn't actually elemental itself but is the foundation of the others.

======================================================================
PAGE: The End
CATEGORIES: Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/The_End
======================================================================

Concept art of the desolated lands with the Ashen Veil.
The End
, also known as the
Apocalyptic Warnings
, is a speech by an unknown deity, spoken to all civilizations of the world. The speech will unfold in parts as the
Armageddon Counter
reaches certain thresholds. The first part will arrive at 10 AC.
The End
AC 10
Effects: None
Hear me, mortals, and heed me well. Whispers of forgotten lore have found my ears, the currents of time flow through my veins with every beat of my heart and bear visions of death and despair...
...As the wickedness of man takes hold of him, darkness will start to engulf his world. At first he will see nothing, only a few of the most gifted will even sense the change. The world will go on as it has, for a time, but the seeds of its downfall have been sown...
AC 30
Effects: Blight strikes. All living units on the map suffer a random amount of Death Damage (~25% to 90%, can kill weakened units) & all cities receive a massive unhealthiness penalty for 10 turns, all but guaranteeing city shrinkage.
...and thus the first sign of the oncoming darkness shall come to the mortal realm; crops shall be destroyed by withering sickness, leaving only barren fields of desolation to meet the eyes of hungry children. Animals shall perish as plague and disease rages rampantly throughout every pasture, and so shall the desperate mortals trying to feed off their meat...
Many shall die during this first time of hardship, yet those who survive will live to become envious of the dead...
AC 40
Effects:
Stephanos
spawns in a random location on the map as a Barbarian unit.
... as the people remain blind to the imminent threat to their world despite the previous signs, four harbingers of destruction shall arrive, riding dread steeds and each keeping the shadow of terror as a constant companion...
...and the first of the four shall be known as
Stephanos
, though the terrified mortals in their whispers of dread will name him the Conqueror. He shall claim the lands of the mortals as his own, he shall slay the armies of men who attempt to stand against him, and soon all the empires will fall to his unyielding rule...
AC 50
Effects:
Buboes
spawns in a random location on the map as a Barbarian unit.
...and the second of the four shall be called
Buboes
, though the unfortunate survivors of the initial reign of Stephanos will come to know him as the Warbringer... dissent and strife shall reign amidst the lands while he rides along the crest of a wave of human blood, reveling in the torrents of death and destruction following in his wake.
...Men, women and children of all creeds and nations shall rise their flags for causes long forgotten, battling friend and foe alike 'til only scattered survivors on broken fields remain, soon to be struck down by the horseman's unforgiving blade...
AC 60
Effects:
Yersinia
spawns in a random location on the map as a Barbarian unit.
...and the third of the four shall be called
Yersinia
, known amongst mortals as the Witherer. He shall ride across the charred and burned battlefields, travelling to the few settlements that continue to exist in the doomed world, and with him shall fly a terrible plague on black wings, to sweep down upon the poor souls in his path...
...many shall perish with horrible suffering, parents shall watch their
children wither and die before their eyes, lovers shall be torn form each others' arms by the horrid embrace of enthropy, and the sole comfort of those left behind in the land of the living will be the knowledge that they are soon to follow...
...and he shall cause crops to wither and animals to perish in his wake, so that those who survive the plague will think longingly of even the first blight as the time of plenty, as they vainly seek to sate their hunger with ashes and dust...
AC 70
Effects:
Ars Moriendi
spawns in a random location on the map as a Barbarian unit.
...and the last of the four shall be called
Ars Moriendi
; not to be known by any other name by mortals, as none will know him and live...
...he shall be the most cruel and powerful of the horsemen, dousing the spark of life in mortal souls through his presence alone, yet many shall come to greet him with longing rather than despair...
...his shall be the final embrace, as countless souls will fall to his blade, only to rise again to join his dark retinue of wailing spirits; yearning now to consume the souls of their former families, friends and neighbors...
...he shall leave in his wake an empty world; once proud cities fall into ruin, marketplaces once filled with laughter and conversation now desolate and abandoned, the only voices heard the rushing of dead leaves in the cold wind...
AC 80
Effects: Hellfire nodes spawn randomly on the map. Hellfires can spawn powerful barbarian Demon units, or if in
Infernal
held lands, spawn Demon
Champions
.
...as the presence of evil and cruelty grows ever stronger in the world; the very landscape shall undergo a fell transformation. The earth will be torn apart by horrible tremors, and cracks to the underworld shall spring open wherever the land has been marked. The infernal fires of Hell shall spread forth from these cracks, and the world shall be seared and scarred by unholy flames...
...the wicked and the righteous alike shall be engulfed by the blaze, and all shall die in pain and anguish...
AC 90
Effects:
Avatar of Wrath
spawns in a random location on the map as a Barbarian unit.
...there shall be a last sign before the End, in a time when the anger and confusion of all the souls that have died during the previous calamities reaches its pinnacle...
...the force of their anger shall come to transcend the boundaries of each individual soul, and thus shall they be merged into a single unfied flame of hatred towards the living...
...and this flame of anger shall be channeled into the world of the living and be given physical form. Many shall be the armies of men who will feel an irresistible calling in their hearts to join this final crusade of destruction, and the
Avatar
shall lead them in a great battle against all the nations of the world...
AC 100
Effects:
Armageddon
occurs. All cities lose 50% of their population; each living unit has an independent 50% chance to be killed automatically by Armageddon. (Nonliving units such as demons, golems, etc. will not be harmed by Armageddon)
...finally, if all the previous portents have gone unheeded by those amongst men who still had the power to stop the decline of the world, the apocalypse shall strike the world. The sky shall rain fire, the seas shall boil, the sun shall be eclipsed by eternal darkness and plants, animals and people shall perish in greater numbers than ever before...
...those who follow the darkness shall revel in the suffering of the world, while the righteous who tried in vain to prevent it shall weep and howl with despair as they lose all hope and dreams, as they forget the very nature of life and light, and as they finally are forever lost in darkness, their souls doomed to wander ethereal pathways throughout eternity, tormented with bitter regret, even as their bodies are consumed by flames...
...thus Hell shall be merged with Erebus, and thus Erebus shall become Hell...

======================================================================
PAGE: The Fall of Mammon
CATEGORIES: Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/The_Fall_of_Mammon
======================================================================

Chapter 1
Mammon
sat in the shadow of a great mountain. He liked creation, the smells of fresh earth and growing things, the mix of warm sunlight and cool breezes. But a world is more than the material and his mind was exploring one of his own creations, mathematics.
The One
had removed the power of creation from them, but the gods were still powerful. Though the laws of Erebus were set, they could easily bend them. But in time they would return to their natural state. Mammon wished he could remake some of the laws he had applied, and even now played with changing them and watched the impact of his changes on the clouds that drifted overhead. The way the clouds split, funneled, dispersed and moved were dramatically changed by the slightest of his adjustments.
As the god of foresight Mammon watched the world play out due to his tiny changes. The clouds shadow that uncovered a mother mouse a second sooner. The hawk that spotted the now uncovered mouse. The mouse that would die in the hawks claws. The mouse babies that would starve without their mother. The seeds that would not be eaten by the mice. The plants that would now grow from those seeds.
The clouds rolled towards the west, they were bone white and hung low in the sky. All except a single cloud that traveled directly east. Mammon considered the futures changed by the defiant cloud. Weather patterns changed, storms that would and wouldn't occur now. The changed world that existed because of that cloud.
"Would you be so quick to change everything if you knew the implications of your actions?" Mammon asked the sky.
Tali
, god of the air, smiled down at the serious god, "I suspect that everything turns out the same no matter what we do."
Mammon frowned, "That is not true."
But secretly Mammon wondered if Tali was right.
A distant ceremony beckoned to both the gods. All the gods gathered around a shallow pool and with a thought Mammon and Tali joined them.
Within the pool a woman floated, perfect of form with smooth, pale skin and long, black hair. She was to be
Gabella
, formed by
Aeron
into the first woman and she was receiving a blessing from each of the gods.
Bhall
, goddess of fire, floated in the pool with Gabella and fire danced across the pools surface and shimmered in its depths. Bhall held the sleeping Gabella and whispered into her ear, "I give you the capacity for passion and love, that you can give these gifts to others and can receive them to yourself."
At that she kissed Gabella gently on the forehead. Gabella continued to float as Bhall let go and stepped out of the pool.
Cerdiwen
came next, floating above the pool she allowed the long tendrils of her gown to reach down and lift Gabella gently to her.
Oghma
was watching Mammon closely. The two were as close as their precepts, Oghma was knowledge of everything that was and Mammon was the god of knowledge of everything that will be. The thin line of the present separated their dominions and because of that the gods had a close affinity for each other.
Deciding that something had changed Oghma whispered to Mammon, "You seem bothered."
Nemed
spoke to all the gathered gods before Mammon could respond.
"I mean to give her eternal life. That mankind can share our immortality and live without death."
The gods considered, all life in creation was meant to be temporary. They were not making gods, but a world with seasons and cycles.
Arawn
was the first to respond.
"They have not known heaven, but they will yearn for it. Are you sure that our creation is so perfect that it should be unending?"
At that the gods all began speaking at once. Only
Agares
, who watched without comment, and Mammon stayed out of the conversation. Mammon already knew the outcome. It was the same as any major decision they had to make, they would ask him. It was Nemed who asked.
“Mammon, what do you foresee for Gabella and her children? Should she live eternal, or live only for a time within creation?"
For the first time Mammon was afraid to answer. Something was wrong, and for one who always knew the future being blind to it terrified him. Mammon could see the creation of Gabella, could see her rebellion and refusal to submit to the plan of the gods. Beyond that he saw the rebellion of Agares, and his attempt to challenge The One. He saw The One standing in creation, judging the world. But he couldn't see anything beyond that moment. If there was any future beyond that, he was blind to it. Mammon suspected that The One unmade them and creation. He suspected that he was seeing his own death.
In regards to Gabella's immortality, for the time that Mammon could see there was no difference. With or without eternal life Gabella would refuse to become the mother of humanity. With either option she would live until Mammon's vision failed him. She would live as long as Mammon would.
Rather than admit that his vision was gone, rather than tell the gods that Agares would betray them, that they would all die, Mammon pretended to know and for the first time gave advice without knowing if it was correct.
"Allow them to be immortal, they should not fear death." Mammon was beginning to know that fear to well himself.
Arawn seemed bothered by the response but said nothing. Nemed entered the pool, embraced Gabella and whispered into her ear. From that moment she was as immortal as a single god could make her.
Mammon was next. He walked across the surface of the pool and sat down at Gabella's side.
"Wake child." He said softly.
Gabella sat up and her eyes fluttered open. She was still in the daze of birth and likely wouldn't see or remember him, but he wanted to see her eyes. Aeron had fashioned her body perfectly, she was beautiful, strong and unique in feature.
"I give you..." Mammon leaned close, so that no one could overhear, "I give you nothing, so that you might always wonder and won't know the pleasures and the pains of the future."
Gabella lay back down in the pool and returned to her sleep. Agares was the last to give his blessing and he stepped into the pool. At his touch the water
changed to a blend of black and gold, a beautiful labyrinth of bright gold veins appearing and disappearing into emptiness.
The gold strands caressed Gabella's body and again her eyes fluttered open to meet Agares's gaze.
"I give you hope, a belief in what can be, that you will not know despair."
Oghma was watching Mammon closely, he would be the only one who knew that Mammon didn't give a gift to Gabella. Similarly Mammon watched Agares, searching unsuccessfully for some hint of his future betrayal.
Chapter 2
Nemed
was reborn a man. He gave the precept of life to
Arawn
and now he marveled at the slightest sensations of creation. The way the grass tickled his feet, the goose bumps on his back from the cool air, and the weight of his own body.
Gabella
stood watching a distant storm. The grasslands swayed around her and the scattered copses of trees turned their leaves skyward in expectation of the coming rain. Though she was just a few hours old Oghma had given her not only the capacity to learn but an understanding of creation that made her the equal of any scholar in later ages.
As Nemed approached she raised one hand to stop him then she turned to consider him. He had expected to see an expression of a swan to its mate, or a baby bear to its mother. But instead he saw the calm, dangerous look of a predator, of a lioness surveying her land.
"I am Nemed, I am to be your husband. We will populate this world with our children."
Without emotion Gabella turned to reveal a sharpened stick she held in her left hand, in a smooth motion she leapt at him, knocking Nemed to the ground and placing the spears tip against his penis.
Gabella smiled at his look of surprise, "I suspect this may happen exactly opposite of how you intended."
Nemed tried to throw her off but she was stronger, and faster, than the once god. In one motion she stabbed him, tearing through his scrotum and ripping his penis off in one meaty chunk. Gabella admired it briefly before flipping it off into the grass. Nemed screamed in agony.
The gods appeared around the two.
Sirona
was at Nemed's side, and even though he quickly healed from the wound, the memory of pain and fear left him shaken. Gabella was held fast in
Dagda
's power, frozen under the consideration of the gods.
"Have we failed, should we remove Gabella from creation?" Dagda asked.
No one answered.
Nantosuelta
approached Gabella, she brushed Gabella's long black hair back away from her face. "Child, couldn't you see the results of your actions? Why did you fear the advances of Nemed so? Don't you long for the generations before you?"
It was
Lugus
who answered, "She is without foresight. Her fear consumes her, making her little more than a beast despite our gifts. Why was the future hidden from her?"
This last question was directed at Mammon.
"Rebellion is inherent in creation" Mammon answered, "her actions were the same regardless. The only difference was I saved her from the knowledge of what will be done to her in response. Do you want her to act in fear of our punishment or according to her desires? The desires that we gave her."
"Her obedience can be compelled"
Junil
offered.
At this the gods broke into arguing.
Esus
was the most adamant that Gabella should be free to choose her own course, and Junil argued that this disobedience must be removed from creation.
Aeron
, who had fashioned her form and considered her the greatest of his creations, fought to allow her freedom. As did
Cerdiwen
,
Camulos
(who only wanted peace) and Agares.
Mulcarn
only offered that creation was better off without men at all.
"Should we free her or unmake her?" Dagda asked Mammon. Once again they turned to him.
"It doesn't matter, whatever you decide she will be freed."
At that Arawn stepped forward. His right hand shone with the pure white light of birth, his left with the gray power of ending. He raised his left hand over Gabella but before he lowered it Ceridwen appeared behind the trapped Gabella. The flowing tendrils of Ceridwen's gown surrounded Gabella, completely blocking her from the sight of the other gods. Arawn brushed the gown easily aside, but Gabella was gone.
Chapter 3
The gods argued again and eventually agreed to create another wife for Nemed. This time the gifts were to be less than those given to Gabella, so she wouldn't be pulled in different directions by each of their aspects. And she would be mortal in form so that whatever she chose, she would not have a permanent impact on creation. Her soul was to remain immortal, and Arawn agreed to tend to her soul, and those of the mortal generations that would follow her.
They named her Anesidora and she was as gentle as Gabella was fierce. Nemed grew a great tree,
Yggdrasil
,
which could feed
generations and shelter them from even the greatest storms. The gods frequently met in the cool shade of its tremendous reach. It was a favorite place for squirrels to play and they could often be seen chasing each other along the branches, or chattering noisily at anyone who passed by, god or man.
One day
Agares
and Mammon stood by the tree's edge and the squirrels chattered at them. One even came to Agares's foot, looking up at the powerful god and squeaking as if laying out all the world’s problems for him. Agares simply smiled at the tiny creature and offered him a small nut, which the squirrel happily accepted before hopping away.
"
The One
will return to creation soon." Mammon commented.
Agares nodded.
"When he does, you will rebel against him."
Agares stayed silent to this. The nut Agares had given the squirrel had drawn the attention of others and the squirrels started quarreling with each other over it.
Finally Agares asked, "How does it end?"
"I don't know" Mammon answered, "I see you rebel, I see him considering creation and then nothing. I can't see a future for anyone beyond that moment. I believe he kills us all and unmakes creation."
Agares nodded, then asked "What do you think we should have done with Gabella?"
"You mean, what should The One do with you?"
Agares simply responded, "Yes."
"I don't know. I love creation, I don't want to see it lost. But questions of morality are better suited for the dominions of other gods." Then after a pause Mammon added, "I'm afraid of dying. Were we ever not alive?"
Agares shrugged. "I will speak to those that defended Gabella. If they value life and freedom over obedience then they may be allies."
Before Agares left Mammon stopped him, "Did you curse Gabella?
Were you the reason she wouldn't submit?
"
"No" he answered, "I thought it was you. But maybe Aeron didn't want another taking his perfect creation. Or maybe it was Cerdiwen, who is always incomprehensible."
"Maybe" Mammon echoed, but Agares was already gone. Alone, Mammon sat and watched the squirrels continue to fight over the nut.
Chapter 4
Os-Gabella
, Gabella the unbound, crept through the forest. It was a few days since her birth but she was already the greatest predator in creation and hunted without fear. It was spring and the sun, filtered through the leaves, created a net of light on the forest floor. There was no night in this world, it was caught in permanent day and made any time equally good for hunting.
Then two gods surrounded her. They held a thousand forms, and the world reacted to their thoughts. In one vision
Junil
seemed to swing a brilliant white sword at her only to have it blocked by the shield of
Camulos
. In another a tree broke and collapsed on her, but a
wolf
leapt and knocked her out of the way. In another the gods simply stood on each side of her, considering their possible actions.
Os-Gabella suspected this last vision was the true one, but the world seemed to ripple out from the gods as if it was only smoke. Not only did the hand change the direction of the smoke, but the wind that followed it. Even the most minor thoughts of the gods changed the world, and these weren't minor thoughts.
Junil wanted her dead and Camulos stood protectively over her, and the power of his dominion held Junil at bay.
Os-Gabella fled into the trees, running from shadow to shadow back to the place of safety that
Ceridwen
had provided her, the
Bair of Lacuna
. She briefly came out of the shadows to cross
a small glade
and almost ran into a figure standing in the shadows on the other side. He was massive and well muscled, more so than any other god and he radiated an aura of virility and masculinity. It was
Aeron
.
"Calm child" he said, "I do not wish you harm."
Os-Gabella adjusted quickly, cutting around the opposite side of a massive oak and sprinting on. But she wasn't fast enough, Aeron was instantly on the other side of the tree waiting for her. He reached for her, grabbing her left wrist.
Os-Gabella attacked, hitting Aeron in the nose with an open palm. Her blow was like a breeze against a mountain and Aeron only smiled.
"I have not given up my divinity, though you are perfectly fashioned, I am a god."
Os-Gabella struggled but Aeron wrapped a thick arm around her waist and pulled her close to him. She could feel the heat of his body against her and was helpless in his grip.
"What do you want of me?!" she screamed.
"I mean to enjoy my creation, and that you would know the affections of a god. That you would have children devoted to me that are strong, cunning and immortal."
In that moment
The One
entered Creation. For a brief second Os-Gabella felt like she was every part of creation. She was the sunlight filtering through the leaves, the patchwork of grass it fell upon, the river that flowed past Nemed's farm, the clouds in the sky. She was the god that was about to rape her, and the woman about to be raped. She was everything in creation at once. And creation was her alone.
In that moment she knew the mind of every god, and she felt their fear, mistrust and jealousy. She knew their strength and weaknesses. And she loved and hated each of them.
The One
stood on a white stone slab
looking out across creation. The 21 gods appeared around him, each afraid and ashamed for different reasons.
Mammon was consumed with his own dwindling time. He had only a precious few moments of life left and he watched them slip uselessly through his fingers.
Agares
rushed The One, wings unfurled he leapt into the air before him, sword raised high. The One simply caught the charging god in one hand and threw him down. The force of the blow shattered Agares and left him lying broken in the dirt.
The One raised one hand toward Mammon. The arm rose like an hourglass with only a few remaining grains of sand. When it was fully raised Mammon's vision would end, he would be no more.
Then Mammon heard Agares's voice, "Flee rebel, flee and forget."
And in that moment he did. He betrayed his dominion, turned against The One and felt a new power within him. A great desire that could never be filled. Blind to the future he became ruled by the need to control and possess. And he fled.
Aeron, Mulcarn, Esus, Ceridwen and Camulos fled as well. But destruction did not follow them. The One remained briefly in Creation, meeting with the gods that remained loyal to him. Then he returned to The True Heaven and sundered the path between Heaven and Creation.

======================================================================
PAGE: The Worlds of Fall from Heaven
CATEGORIES: Lore
URL: https://fallfromheaven.fandom.com/wiki/The_Worlds_of_Fall_from_Heaven
======================================================================

A long essay by the creator of FFH2 that expands the Lore.
Posted by Derek “Kael” Paxton l on Jul 25, 2009 on Reddit
"r/fallfromheaven"
Source:
https://www.reddit.com/r/fallfromheaven/comments/amb5af/the_worlds_of_fall_from_heaven/
Please refer to orginal Reddit post for comments and futher clarifications by author.
The Worlds of Fall from Heaven
Creation (Bitu, Erebus)
https://imgur.com/yHwypAF
Fashioned by all the gods, Creation exhibits the best and worst of each of them. Nowhere in the realms of Erebus is there more variety, scale and beauty. It is the place that was once close to true heaven. But the godswar, the Age of Ice and a thousand other tragedies have deeply scarred it. Still, there are places where beauty remains.
Yggdrasil sits at the heart of this world, it’s branches reach up into the Infinite Garden and its roots down into the Wildlands.
The Heavens (Albios)
The Fields of Dawn
https://imgur.com/a/fwOZYbI
Lugus- Angel of Light
There is no darkness in this world. Everything is lit evenly and perfectly. There is no distortion for distance or loss of clarity allowing everyone on this flat world to see from one end to the other as clearly as they can see someone standing beside them. It is a dizzying and overwhelming experience for mortals new to the world, but after growing accustomed to it travelers report that they forever feel partially blinded and smothered on other worlds.
This is often called the highest heaven because all entrances to it start below, gazing up at the brillant wall that surrounds the world, and the blazing light radiating out of it. Petitioners must pass up out of darkness into the perfect light of the world, and frequently the journey requires them to sacrifice or face their own tragedy or suffering before they can continue.
Once through the gates it is a world of low, golden fields with a burning sun at its heart. Gazing at the sun reveals every imperfection in the petitioner. Often overwhelming them with shame and self-loathing. They then spend days, months or years with their head down, recovering and worshipping before glancing up again. New petitioners often try to build defenses and excuses to protect themselves from the revelations, but these will be burnt away as well. Over centuries they are eventually able to face the light unhindered.
There is little in the world outside of petitioners, angels and occasional creations of Lugus. There are scattered open amphitheaters where petitioners gather, gleaming mosaic roads leading from the gates to temple of Lugus at the world’s heart and the gleaming sun that is above it.
If a lie is told within this world it creates a tear in the world, an effect that is felt instantly by every petitioner and angel. With enough lies a portal can be opened, for the speaker to escape, or for invaders to enter.
The Isle of Birds
https://imgur.com/a/QW61f26
Sirona- Angel of Wisdom
Petitioners new to this vault are greeted by an idyllic island. The water is perfect, sun warm, sand soft and cool. It is a place of perfect tranquility and peace. A place to meditate and reflect. In the beginning there is no other life except for distant white birds gliding lazyly through the sky.
After years/decades/centuries of reflection the world slowly begins to change, introducing more life and eventually other spirits; calm, reflective angels and petitioners like themselves. In time they become part of a small island community that spends its days in quiet reflection.
Eventually the most advanced learn to allow their spirits to travel to creation where they can soothe and inspire those in need. The forms of these petitioners are often seen on the beaches, sometimes sitting unmoving for generations.
The Endless Ash
https://imgur.com/a/EqeA0Ra
Bhall- Angel of Fire
One of the stones that Agares stole out of heaven is here, the Heart of Fire. It quakes and sends out torrents of magma and fire across the vault with little control or warning. It was a blazing sword into the sky while Bhall reigned here, but now it is wild and has destroyed the structures, temples and shrines the vault once contained.
Few still remain here. Even the archangel Brigit the Shining is gone. Occasional parties of demons or angels, and occasionally powerful creatures of other types attempt their way across this world to claim the power of the Heart of Fire. But so far, it has destroyed anyone who got to close. The gods fear that only Bhall will be able to come claim the stone, and when she does, she will destroy worlds with it.
The Peliguard
https://imgur.com/a/ZyTfSUs
Nantosuelta- Angel of Faith
The Peliguard is a massive temple that is continuously being constructed by a race of powerful golems. They pay little attention to any of the petitioners, angels or even Nantosuelta herself unless anyone attempts to stop their work or damage the temple. In which case they react violently.
The temple itself is an academy and arena in one. This is the place where angelic champions are trained and prepared for war. Most of this time is devoted to combat, but magic, siegecraft, armorsmithing, weaponsmithing, military strategy, history and mental, physical and spiritual endurance are also trained along with a wide variety of other subjects. Anything that helps prepare them to battle the forces of hell.
This is one of the few vaults where angels of other dominions travel freely. Angels of the other good and neutral gods can often be found here training, or teaching.
There are various, elaborate training programs. But the most intense is known as the Suffering. The Suffering is an assault on the body, mind and spirit of those going through it. Nantosuelta herself watches over the trial. And those that fail often do so by falling and becoming demons. If so Nantosuelta destroys them. Those that survive become paragons of faith. It has been said that no one that survives the Suffering will ever fall. And so far, that has been true. To these few are given the most sensitive of tasks, to bear an artifact that cannot be lost, to travel into the hells or to serve one that cannot be betrayed.
The Infinite Garden
https://imgur.com/a/yp6ksJz
Nemed- Angel of Life (now ruled by Sucellus)
One of the stones that was stolen out of heaven by Agares lies here, the Font of Life, and from it pours the infinite sentient souls that can be born upon creation for all time. As long as the Font remains here, the entire world is one living creature.
The petitioners of this world are charged with overseeing the cascading waterfall of life that passes through this vault and directing each spirit to their birth. They are valkyries at the beginning of life instead of the end. In some cases they seek the spirits of those with unusual promise, affinity or potential to be born into lives that will require their strengths.
The archangel, Basium, has abandoned his guardianship. It was once his role to stand before the Font of Life, an eternal, unyielding guard. But Sucellus retains close watch on his vault and it has largely been unthreatened.
The Vault itself is beautiful. It is always spring and scattered with empty tombs covered in vines and wildflowers. The tombs exist because this was once a part of Arawns vault when he ruled both the dominions of life and death. And the verdant growth is the influence of Sucellus’s former dominion of nature.
The upper branches of Yggdrasil reach from creation into this world. It is thought that life passes through Yggdrasil into creation.
The Painted Lands
https://imgur.com/a/oTo11Fg
Amathaon- Angel of Fertility
This vault is malleable, able to be made and remade by anyone that passes through it. Even the weakest petitioner can remake the world around him, and the strong can exert their influence across areas the size of cities or countries.
Because of its nature, the world is a beautiful mix of wonders blended together in elaborate and impossible ways. It is a world where size, color and sound transform into each other.
Although creations of this world fade away when taken into others, some mages have found ways to open small portals to this world, enough to keep the impossible manifestations of this world alive in Creation.
There are less petitioners here than in any other vault. Those few have created an elaborate paradise for themselves. They dream of the world after another Godswar has destroyed Creation. And it is said that after that happens, the new world will come from the creations that were made here.
Agares has been whispering to a few devout and talented worshippers of Amathaon during their lives. Planting tiny seeds that they will carry with them into this world. The effects are already starting to influence the Painted Lands. Some areas of darkness or fear, small fractures in the lands, wondrous creations slowly fading and falling to dust.
The Halls of Honor
https://imgur.com/a/7E8UAks
Junil- Angel of Justice
This entire world is ruled by a great metronome at its heart. In every corner the steady, perfect, slow boom can be heard and the entire world steps with its sound. An endless sea of soldiers field the ground around a great fortress. Each soldier marches with its beat, in drills soldiers stab in rhythm, the entire world is a great machine working as one.
To petitioners it is a perfect machine that they can become a small part of. To others, it is maddening.
This beat echoes silently through all worlds. Clockmakers unconsciously set their clocks to it. War drums are pounded to it, and it sends fear into the hearts of chaotic or demonic enemies. In temples, a metronome beating at the same rate is often enough to keep evil spirits at bay.
The Inner Worlds
The Otherworld (Orbis Alius)
https://imgur.com/a/VtVUCi5
Arawn- Angel of Death
Man was never intended to be mortal. When the gods took immortality from man they charged Arawn with collecting the unclaimed souls. At that time Arawn was the god of life and death, so he would ferry the souls into creation and out of it.
Arawn was supposed to offer the souls an opportunity to pass on to the vaults of the other gods. The Otherworld was indended to be a temporary place for souls before they passed on to their god. But Arawn didn’t perform his task, and kept the souls in his realm instead. He reasons for doing so are unknown.
As the god of life and death Arawn died once each year, on the eve of Samhain. He would then be reborn the following dawn. Killed by death, reborn by life. While Arawn was dead many spirits would escape from the Otherworld back into creation, making Samhain a night of haunting and strange tales.
During the Age of Ice Sucellus was killed and wandered the Otherworld. The night of Samhain, while Arawn was dead he claimed the power of life and used it to resurrect himself. His followers claim Arawn gifted the dominion of life to Sucellus, but this isn’t true, it was stolen.
Without the dominion of life to resurrect himself Arawn is a shattered fragment of his previous self. He is a ghost haunting the Otherworld. The spirit master Laroth realized this and has lead an army into the Otherworld to claim the dominion of death for himself.
The Rings of Carcer
https://imgur.com/a/wRNLqF5
Oghma- Angel of Knowledge
Oghma’s vault is not open. Instead the knowledge it contains is hidden in increasingly difficult layers. Only those who study and pursue the knowledge the vault offers will be able to find it. Many petitioners believe they have reached the innermost circle, only to discover that there are nearly infinite depths ahead of them.
As a safeguard, the outermost ring was protected by a mist that stole the memories of anyone who touched it. So that no one could escape Oghma’s vault with its secrets. During the Age of Magic an army entered the vault and attempted to rob it. The mist was released and now all that remains are mountain peaks that rise above the released mist. The army scrambled up out of the mist, forgetting where they were, or why there were there. Over the intervening centuries they built cities in the mountain peaks, as well as enchanted ships that sail on the sea of mist. An entire civilization has been created without knowing that they live in the vault of a god.
The angels have done little to interfere with the men living in the outer ring of their vault. Petitioners arrive at the outer ring unaware that they have died, they come out of the mist and have little memory of what happened before. There are enough clues in the outer ring that a petitioner who is perceptive and questioning can begin to understand the mysteries of the ring. Once he is able to understand the ring and its function he will will be able to go into an inner ring. This is a trial, this is a vault of knowledge, but it is not freely given, it must be earned.
From the perspective of the people that live in this ring they believe these people are a different race they call the “Caligo” or the children of the mist. The Caligo rise out of the mist confused and lost, remain in the city for a few months or years and then typically disappear. On most of the peaks the Caligo are treated as lucky, they are often happy to work and have no real needs (they don’t need food or water). There are numerous stories of how caring for a Caligo has led to some fortunate act years after the Caligo is gone, and stories where people claim to have seen a Caligo unchanged that they knew as a child for a brief moment.
But on some peaks the treatment of Caligo’s isn’t as kind. From being ignored and forced to live on the streets, to being enslaved. Some peaks have built defenses so that no one can come out of the mist onto the peak.
The Shimmering Depths
https://imgur.com/a/pQfsdsc
Danalin- Angel of Water
One of the stones that Agares stole out of heaven is here, the Ocean’s Tear. It is the source of all oceans, rivers and lakes. It pours out into this world and into many others beyond.
There is a war waging within this vault. And it is nearly lost. Condatis, the archangel of this dominion leads the resistance with the angels and petitioners that still serve. But most have been lost to the darkness and corruption that lies within the shimmering depths. Few new petitioners join Condatis, because the church in creation has become corrupt as well. In time, this new force will have its way, and Condatis will be lost.
Danalin lies at the deepest levels of the vault, bound in darkness, but he pays no attention to the war or Creation.
The Divine Court
https://imgur.com/a/1YzZ58h
Dagda- Angel of Balance
This world is a series of halls and chambers all leading to increasingly complex courtrooms. In the lower courts groups of judges evaluate cases against mortals. In the higher courts true angels and demons are tried. And in the court of Dagda the gods themselves are tried. This is where Mulcarn was tried in absentia and it was decreed that Sucellus would enter creation to battle him.
The angels of Junil are usually the ones to bring demons and angels to trial. It is typically for breaking the compact and demons and angels are equally likely to tried and convicted. Angels of all the gods have faced these courts. And notices make clear who the courts are seeking for trial, Basium and Cassiel are at the top of that list.
Those that are convicted are sentenced either to imprisonment for a time within the Otherworld. Arawn keeps a portion of his world just for the imprisonment of angels and demons. Or if the crime is great enough they are remade. The immortal can never truly die so their sentience is removed and they are transformed into bestial versions of themselves and released as creatures within the Wildlands.
The Eternal Mountain
https://imgur.com/a/CalBph8
Kilmorph- Angel of Earth
One of the stones that Agares stole out of heaven is here, the Wishstone. So called because it can produce endless amounts of gold, gems, castles or entire mountain ranges.
Although there are occasional buildings, parapets and balconies in the side of the mountain Kilmoph’s heaven is mostly within the sprawling tunnels, caverns and chambers carved within the mountain itself. Most run through the mountain naturally, like veins of minerals. But these chambers are mostly empty.
Thick veins of Seraphim Gold run through the mountain and this is where most of the world's inhabitants dwell. Not within pockets of air, but existing as creatures within the gold. The angels and petitioners can pass through stone easily and passing through Seraphim Gold allows them to perceive anything within the Gold. Kilmorph herself dwells within the heart of the gold deep under the mountain.
Seraphim Gold is valued on all the planes for its incredibly durability and its ability to conduct and amplify magic.
The Wildlands
https://imgur.com/a/9XbHtNQ
Sucellus- Angel of Nature (now ruled by Cernunnos)
When Sucellus ruled this was the domain of plants and largely peaceful animals. Predators existed, but they were rare and most animals lived their entire lives without knowing fear. A petitioner or traveler was often greeted by curious animals.
But Cernunnos has transformed this world. Predators have become stronger and more aggressive. The prey still exist, but they have had to become faster and more cautious to survive. The entire world is a giant hunt that demands the most out of everyone in it. Cernunnos himself hunts each night and it is the greatest fear, and the greatest honor for any creature in the vault to be hunted by him. Especially for those few who manage to escape him.
New petitioners here instantly become predators that must hunt and kill to survive. Travelers often find themselves as prey. Though occasionally powerful explorers come here just to hunt the mythical creatures that live here.
There are powerful and unique versions of the creatures that exist here. They are incredible examples of their species, unlike any animals found on other worlds. They are viewed as legendary creatures and paragons of their species. In truth they don’t belong to the species they appear as. They are formed true angels that have broken divine law and be transformed by Dagda’s court and placed here to live as beasts.
The roots of Yggdrasil reach into this world. It allows powerful creatures to wander from this world into Creation.
The Changing Sky
https://imgur.com/a/8Bq7L2A
Tali- Angel of Air
One of the stones that Agares stole out of heaven is here, the Seed of Storms. During the Age of Invention the Seed is stolen, though few know this.
This world contains floating islands that drift in what seems to be endless sky. Beneath the islands storms rage, including tornados that dwarf anything that has occurred in creation, though the islands are left relatively untouched.
Each island can have a dramatically different variety of petitioners living there. From the ramshackle homes of thieves that dip into creation for robberies, to an island of dancers and martial artists, to dreamers, caretakers of animal populations, skilled glassblowers and artists, and much more. Each island is almost its own tiny world with its own culture and customs. And since they move, islands are constantly changing their position relative to each other (and making it nearly impossible to find your way back).
Most of the worlds petitioners wander aimlessly between the islands, delighting in one until becoming bored and jumping to the next.
What few know, is that far beneath the floating islands, below the storms of rough days and the haze of calm days, there is land. This terrain is a scrapyard for everything that has been discarded from the islands since the beginning of creation. It is a rusting junkyard piled on shifting sands. There are people that live in this wasteland, though they hate the inhabitants of the islands, and try to find shelter from the storms in temporary shelters they build from the junk. They dream of being able to build a tower back to the islands, to kill those that have forgotten about them, but the distance is to far.
The Hells (Dubnos)
The vaults of the evil gods are bound together. They are seven hells intertwined for one purpose, the forging of mortal souls into the infernal.
The Throne of Hell
https://imgur.com/a/IBJo2Wh
Mulcarn- Angel of Ice, who would become the Angel of Winter
The vault is dominated by a great mountain. The mountain is larger than any on Erebus, it is steep, rigid and punishing. The pinnacle is called the throne of hell (not an actual throne) and is the main gateway between the hells and Erebus (in the Fane of Lessers) and the portal through which souls are drawn into hell.
The mountain gets colder the higher you climb, and its base and rocky spires are hunted by the remaining servants of Mulcarn, frost giants, frostlings, aquilan and the nive.
Below a vast waste slopes away from the mountain. The rough tundra turns into a swamp. Each step through the swamp is a battle and the languid pools pull at anyone trying to get through them. Beneath the surface the largest source of petitioners in hell are trapped, this is the purgatory for the non-committal. They lay here for ages, consuming their own excrement and feeling nothing but slight pain and lethargy. In time they will overcome their passive nature and continue down into hell, but for now they are victims of their own inaction. Tar demons are pulled from these pools, gelatinous blobs with little humanity remaining.
There are creatures in the swamp, mites and bugs that leaving horrid burning blisters where they bite. They are not deadly, most that travel here are immortal, but the creatures steal the strength of those that pass through the swamp, inviting petitioners to lay beneath the black waters and succumb to mindless eternity that this realm offers.
Dis- The City of Brass
https://imgur.com/a/Wz9WPGx
Mammon- Angel of Foresight, who would become the Angel of Greed
There is one great city in hell and it dominates this entire world of Mammon. The wastes of Mulcarn’s realm lead down into it and eventually the souls will be drawn to the city. As they get closer to the city they are transformed from ethereal spirits to a physical manifestation similar to their body in life.
As each petitioner enters the city he is given a coin, and the only way to progress through the city is to give seven coins to the Balors that guard the gateway at the city's heart. As such the entire plane is a trial to gather the seven coins needed to escape (little do they know that only worse lays beyond). Balors guard the city and maintain some illusion of order. This keeps wars from breaking out and makes for some safe areas where you can’t simply attack people to take their coins.
The point of this realm isn't to teach the petitioners how to effectively get the coins, but to have them spend years, decades and centuries wanting them. Getting them to the point where they are completely subject to their greed and unbound by any morale constraints in getting them. They will lie, they will steal, but mostly they will become ruled by their desire in a city full of lies, false hope, and degradation.
Some few never leave this stage of hell and intentionally become permanent citizens of this city. They occasionally rise into powerful positions, slave traders, dream merchants, cult leaders, etc. Mammon may take those that seem stuck and wipe their memories, forcing them to restart their entry into the city, but sometimes he leaves them be. Mammon is quite proud of his city, and one of the few (along with Esus) who views it as something more than just a part of a great machine.
Oddly the city features a long street full of various temples. There are hundreds of gods represented, and temples are regularly switched from one religion to another. Most of the "religions" are unique to this city. Some worship various demons that may or may not be in the city, some worship petitioners pretending to be gods. All of the gods of Erebus are represented except one, though most in blatant parody of the real religion. There is a temple to Lugus, for example, that claims that Lugus is dead and they worship hideously disfigured statues of their fallen god.
The only god without a temple is Mammon. Mammon believes that the entire city is his temple.
The Bloodfield
https://imgur.com/99lTDLE
Camulos- Angel of Peace, who would become the Angel of War
Petitioners who pass through Mammon's trial are dropped into the eternal war of Camulos. There is no order here, there is little logic or reason. Only pain, hatred and battle. The world is as chaotic as those that fill it and volcanoes blast the sky while earthquakes raze and create mountains.
The point of this hell is to desensitize the petitioner to any form of pain. To go beyond any moral qualms at hurting or killing anyone. To delight in inflicting pain and build a need to torment others. To enjoy feeling pain themselves.
A petitioner that is born here begins small and weak. Their exact form and abilities vary widely based on the personality of the soul. There is little pattern to them. They are the subject of pain for a long time before they ever have any chance to inflict it. They start as little more than savage beasts, their memories are lost when leaving Mammon's world and they are reduced only to their base nature. In time that nature will grow, but the memories of life will be faint or gone altogether from this point on. In time they become stronger until eventually their conquests will be legendary. If Mammon's hell is the corruption of the mind, this hell is the corruption of the spirit.
Land is held by the powerful warlords of the plane, who travel in bands that are constantly betrayed by their members. Once a petitioner has grown strong enough they will simply be swallowed by the earth and surrounding warlords will be quick to step in and fill the void of the missing warlord.
Occasionally powerful demons will come to this vault on hunting expeditions. They hunt the greatest or least of the spirits here and take them as servants (to fight in their own arenas as they aren’t worth much else) or merely for the pleasure of killing them. There are occasional wastelands here, the shallows, where some spirits hide to escape the constant battle. Whatever peace they find doesn't last long, and the hell hounds and demon hunters make regular trips into the shallows to gather new slaves. Sometimes demons pull petitioners directly out of this vault to serve them in Erebus. These are enraged, wild demons. Strong, but without reason.
The pits and tunnels beneath this vault are filled with vast prisons were the victims of war are kept. Here they suffer the worst physical torments and are forever unable to die. If there is any art in this violent hell it is in the perfection of torture. Trapped within dark holes, blood pouring through the ground like water and with the walls trembling with earthquakes and explosions you find the least fortunate of hells denizens.
The Temple of Supplication
https://imgur.com/a/uQ8VEL4
Aeron- Angel of Strength, who would become the Angel of Rage
The chaos is ended. The vault of Aeron is formed to train demons in all the skills they will need on Erebus. It could be thought of as a great academy, but it’s closer to say that it is a great temple. Demons learn to fight, lie, and channel power. They learn the great deceptions, and to subjugate themselves to their superiors. Through this training they become a part of the infernal hierarchy. Priests as well as warriors, commanders and soldiers.
Many demons are tasked with missions in Erebus as part of this training. Imps are students early in their training. Many of the intelligent demons in Erebus are just in a stage of their training here. Those that have passed beyond this vault are the most rare and powerful of processed souls, demonic lords and princes.
Occasionally particularly vile petitioners (priests of the veil, etc) will skip all the earlier stages and start here in Aeron’s vault ready for training.
The Plains of Dust
https://imgur.com/a/Nz8btqx
Agares- Angel of Hope, who would become the Angel of Despair
This is the conclusion. Agares takes little interest in the powerful figures that make their home in the mutable surface of his world. From the runs of Nyx the demon princes raise dark palaces and lay claim to their own small fiefdoms. There is little beyond this, the demons are drawn to it because of their affinity to Agares but few remain here long. Instead they begin their plots on Erebus or join the ranks of a god that appeals to them. In time their fiefdoms vanish and their palaces fade back to dust.
Bhall lays burning in this realm and her corrupted angels with her. It is at the edge of her influence that the most demonic activity happens. As was never true before her fall the demonic denizens of this realm have begun to act together, impassioned by her presence they now delight in their schemes and have taken a much greater interest in creation. Cabal's have formed and even Hyborem seeks to challenge Erebus itself.
Mirrorhaven
https://imgur.com/a/9EnzgrB
Ceridwen- Angel of the Stars, who would become the Angel of Magic
Ceridwen's vault is the largest and has no size at all. It is what binds all the hells together, and them with Erebus. It is not what’s on either side of the doorway, but the space between, the doorway itself. Some of the strangest creatures in creation have come from this world.
Though there are no physical bounds to her world there are shadowy gaps within it, places between worlds. The laws of nature are not fixed within these worlds, that which is set in the laws of creation is mutable here. By drawing from these places, pulling them into creation these laws can be bent. Fire can be made to move and leap, the dominions that were once subordinate only to the gods can be commanded by men.
Esus may be the god of deception, but Cerdiwen is the queen of secrets. Even her highest angels are only privy to tiny parts of the vast web of portals and hidden spaces that make up her world. It is known that she has countless passages into Erebus and the hells, but most suspect that she travels between many more worlds. Perhaps even beyond those created by the gods of Erebus.
Among these secrets is the Nexus. This is a labyrinth with passages to many worlds. It is guarded by a timeless race from beyond and is rarely used by anyone beyond Ceridwen and her closest angels. This is where Ceridwen met other versions of herself from the beyond. And these other forms were goddesses of other forms. The Nexus is where Kylorin was trained in magic, by versions of Ceridwen from the worlds of Erebus and those beyond. This is where Tebryn Arabandi was brought through and introduced to Erebus that he should forward Ceridwen’s inscrutable plans.
There is another joining place of some note. A great inn with countless rooms and halls called the Tapestry House. Where strange and enticing pleasures are beyond each door. The place is always active, filled with people, angels and demons of all types, drinking, laughing and fighting. And at its center Ceridwen’s archangel, Kanna, Mistress of Pain rules.
The Dreamlands
https://imgur.com/a/liWHwSG
Esus- Angel of Trust, who would become the Angel of Deception
Occasionally a petitioner refuses the processing of hell and attempts to escape. A handful of fallen angels have risen, or petitioners have triumphed over hell by manifesting the virtues that each vault attempts to remove from them and going through it backward until they climb the mountain of Mulcarn’s realm and pass by the throne of hell itself back into Erebus. But this is an incredibly rare event.
Most commonly those wishing to escape hell find their way into the illusionary world of Esus. This world appears as Erebus in every way. It is even populated by simulacrums of the people the petitioner knew in life. They can return to their life here, they can believe that they have escaped from hell. But such joy will be short lived.
The function of this hell is to remove any motivation that is keeping a petitioner from his processing. Those that escape hell for love will find their love again, but it will sour and fade. Those that escape to follow their duty will find their tasks to be eventually flawed and meaningless. Those that are searching for a new faith will find their worship empty and hollow.
Everything in Esus’s realm is a lie, and it is the most cunning trap of hell.
